What is aortic aneurysm?
An aortic aneurysm is a balloon-like bulge in the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart through the chest and torso.Aortic aneurysms can dissect or rupture:The force of blood pumping can split the layers of the artery wall, allowing blood to leak in between them. This process is called a dissection.The aneurysm can burst completely, causing bleeding inside the body. This is called a rupture.Dissections and ruptures are the cause of most deaths from aortic aneurysms.
What are the risk factors for aortic aneurysm?
Diseases and unhealthy behaviors that damage your heart and blood vessels also increase your risk for aortic aneurysm. Smoking is the most important behavior related to aortic aneurysm.Other factors include1)High blood pressure 2)High blood cholesterol->Atherosclerosis (hardened arteries)3)Some inherited connective tissue disorders, such as Marfan syndrome and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, can also increase your risk for aortic aneurysm. Your family may also have a history of aortic aneurysms that can increase your risk.
How are aortic aneurysms treated?
The two main treatments for aortic aneurysms are medicines and surgery. Medicines can lower blood pressure and reduce risk for an aortic aneurysm. Surgery can repair or replace the affected section of the aorta.
what is achanthamoeba infection?
Acanthamoeba is a microscopic, free-living ameba, or amoeba* (single-celled living organism), that can cause rare**, but severe infections of the eye, skin, and central nervous system. The ameba is found worldwide in the environment in water and soil. The ameba can be spread to the eyes through contact lens use, cuts, or skin wounds or by being inhaled into the lungs. Most people will be exposed to Acanthamoeba during their lifetime, but very few will become sick from this exposure. The three diseases caused by Acanthamoeba are:1)Acanthamoeba keratitis – An infection of the eye that typically occurs in healthy persons and can result in permanent visual impairment or blindness.2)Granulomatous Amebic Encephalitis (GAE) – A serious infection of the brain and spinal cord that typically occurs in persons with a compromised immune system.3)Disseminated infection – A widespread infection that can affect the skin, sinuses, lungs, and other organs independently or in combination. It is also more common in persons with a compromised immune system.
what are symptoms of Acanthamoeba keratitis?
The symptoms of Acanthamoeba keratitis can be very similar to the symptoms of other eye infections. These symptoms, which can last for several weeks or months, may include:1)Eye pain 2)Eye redness 3)Blurred vision 4)Sensitivity to light 5)Sensation of something in the eye 6)Excessive tearing
what are risk factor for Acanthamoeba keratitis?
it is most common in people who wear contact lenses, but anyone can develop the infection. For people who wear contact lenses, certain practices can increase the risk of getting Acanthamoeba keratitis:1)Storing and handling lenses improperly 2)Disinfecting lenses improperly (such as using tap water or homemade solutions to clean the lenses) 3)Swimming, using a hot tub, or showering while wearing lenses 4)Coming into contact with contaminated water 5)Having a history of trauma to the cornea
how is Acanthamoeba keratitis treated?
Early diagnosis is essential for effective treatment of Acanthamoeba keratitis.The infection is usually diagnosed by an eye care provider based on symptoms, growth of the Acanthamoeba ameba from a scraping of the eye, and/or seeing the ameba by a process called confocal microscopy.The infection is treated with one or more prescription medications. An eye care provider can determine the best treatment option for each patient.
what is Adverse Childhood Experiences?
ACEs have a tremendous impact on future violence victimization and perpetration, and lifelong health and opportunity. Working together, we can help create neighborhoods, communities, and a world in which every child can thrive.Learn more about preventing ACEs in your community by assuring safe, stable, nurturing relationships and environments
what is Acinetobacter?
Acinetobacter is a group of bacteria (germs) commonly found in the environment, like in soil and water. While there are many types, the most common cause of infections is Acinetobacter baumannii, which accounts for most Acinetobacter infections in humans.Acinetobacter baumannii can cause infections in the blood, urinary tract, and lungs (pneumonia), or in wounds in other parts of the body. It can also "colonize" or live in a patient without causing infections or symptoms, especially in respiratory secretions (sputum) or open wounds.
How common are Acinetobacter infections?
In 2017, carbapenem-resistant Acinetobacter caused an estimated 8,500 infections in hospitalized patients and 700 estimated deaths in the United States
who is at risk of Acinetobacter?
Acinetobacter infections typically occur in people in healthcare settings. People most at risk include patients in hospitals, especially those who:1)are on breathing machines (ventilators) 2)have devices such as catheters 3)have open wounds from surgery 4)are in intensive care units 5)have prolonged hospital stays 6)In the United States, Acinetobacter infections rarely occur outside of healthcare settings. However, people who have weakened immune systems, chronic lung disease, or diabetes may be more susceptible.
How is Achinetobacter spread?
Acinetobacter can live for long periods of time on environmental surfaces and shared equipment if they are not properly cleaned. The germs can spread from one person to another through contact with these contaminated surfaces or equipment or though person to person spread, often via contaminated hands.
How can you avoid getting an Acinetobacter infection?
Patients and caregivers should:1)keep their hands clean to avoid getting sick and spreading germs that can cause infections 2)wash their hands with soap and water or use alcohol-based hand sanitizer, particularly before and after caring for wounds or touching a medical device 3)remind healthcare providers and caregivers to clean their hands before touching the patient or handling medical devices 4)allow healthcare staff to clean their room daily when in a healthcare setting 5)In addition to hand hygiene, healthcare providers should pay careful attention to recommended infection control practices, including rigorous environmental cleaning (e.g., cleaning of patient rooms and shared equipment), to reduce the risk of spreading these germs to patient.
How are Acinetobacter infections treated?
Acinetobacter infections are generally treated with antibiotics. To identify the best antibiotic to treat a specific infection, healthcare providers will send a specimen (often called a culture) to the laboratory and test any bacteria that grow against a set of antibiotics to determine which are active against the germ. The provider will then select an antibiotic based on the activity of the antibiotic and other factors, like potential side effects or interactions with other drugs.
What is CDC doing to address Acinetobacter infections?
CDC tracks the germ, and the infections it can cause, through its Emerging Infections Program. Additionally, CDC works closely with partners, including public health departments, other federal agencies, healthcare providers, and patients, to prevent healthcare infections and to slow the spread of resistant germs.
What is HIV?
HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It weakens a person’s immune system by destroying important cells that fight disease and infection. No effective cure exists for HIV. But with proper medical care, HIV can be controlled. Some groups of people in the United States are more likely to get HIV than others because of many factors, including their sex partners, their risk behaviors, and where they live. This section will give you basic information about HIV, such as how it’s transmitted, how you can prevent it, and how to get tested for HIV.
what is human immunodeficiency virus?
HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. It weakens a person’s immune system by destroying important cells that fight disease and infection. No effective cure exists for HIV. But with proper medical care, HIV can be controlled. Some groups of people in the United States are more likely to get HIV than others because of many factors, including their sex partners, their risk behaviors, and where they live. This section will give you basic information about HIV, such as how it’s transmitted, how you can prevent it, and how to get tested for HIV.
how can you get HIV?
Only certain body fluids-blood, semen (cum), pre-seminal fluid (pre-cum), rectal fluids, vaginal fluids, and breast milk-from a person who has HIV can transmit HIV. These fluids must come in contact with a mucous membrane or damaged tissue or be directly injected into the bloodstream (from a needle or syringe) for transmission to occur. Mucous membranes are found inside the rectum, vagina, penis, and mouth.
how can HIV prevented?
es. Abstinence means not having oral, vaginal, or anal sex. An abstinent person is someone who’s never had sex or someone who’s had sex but has decided not to continue having sex for some period of time. Abstinence is the only 100% effective way to prevent HIV, other sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and pregnancy. The longer you wait to start having oral, vaginal, or anal sex, the fewer sexual partners you are likely to have in your lifetime. Having fewer partners lowers your chances of having sex with someone who has HIV or another STD.
What is HIV treatment?
HIV treatment involves taking medicines that slow the progression of the virus in your body. HIV is a type of virus called a retrovirus, and the combination of drugs used to treat it is called antiretroviral therapy (ART).Although a cure for HIV does not yet exist, ART can keep you healthy for many years, ART reduces the amount of virus (or viral load) in your blood and body fluids. ART is recommended for all people with HIV, regardless of how long they’ve had the virus or how healthy they are. ART also reduces your chance of transmitting HIV to others if taken as prescribed.ART is usually taken as a combination of 3 or more drugs to have the greatest chance of lowering the amount of HIV in your body. Ask your health care provider about the availability of multiple drugs combined into 1 pill.If the HIV medicines you are taking are not working as well as they should, your health care provider may change your prescription. A change is not unusual because the same treatment does not affect everyone in the same way.Let your health care provider and pharmacist know about any medical conditions you may have and any other medicines you are taking. Additionally, if you or your partner is pregnant or considering getting pregnant, talk to your health care provider to determine the right type of ART that can greatly reduce the risk of transmitting HIV to your baby.
What is AFM?
Acute flaccid myelitis (AFM) is an uncommon but serious neurologic condition. It affects the nervous system, specifically the area of the spinal cord called gray matter, which causes the muscles and reflexes in the body to become weak. We are working closely with national experts to better understand AFM and the outbreaks.
symptoms of AFM?
Sudden arm or leg weakness, loss of muscle tone, and loss of reflexes are the most common symptoms.
prevention of AFM?
Most children had a respiratory illness or fever before they developed AFM. Learn how to decrease risk of getting viral infections.
treatment of AFM?
Clinicians diagnose AFM by taking a careful medical history, doing a physical exam of the patient, and performing an MRI to review pictures of the spinal cord.
what is Adenoviruses?
Adenoviruses are common viruses that cause a range of illness. They can cause cold-like symptoms, fever, sore throat, bronchitis, pneumonia, diarrhea, and pink eye (conjunctivitis). You can get an adenovirus infection at any age. People with weakened immune systems or existing respiratory or cardiac disease are more likely than others to get very sick from an adenovirus infection
symptoms of Adenoviruses infection?
1)common cold or flu-like symptoms 2)fever 3)sore throat 4)acute bronchitis (inflammation of the airways of the lungs, sometimes called a "chest cold") 5) pneumonia (infection of the lungs) 6) pink eye (conjunctivitis) 7)acute gastroenteritis (inflammation of the stomach or intestines causing diarrhea, vomiting, nausea and stomach pain)
Trasmission of Adenoviruses infection?
1)close personal contact, such as touching or shaking hands 2) the air by coughing and sneezing 3)touching an object or surface with adenoviruses on it, then touching your mouth, nose, or eyes before washing your hands
prevension adenoviruses infection?
There is a vaccine for adenovirus types 4 and 7 that is used in military personnel who may be at higher risk for infection from these two adenovirus types. This vaccine contains live virus that can be shed in stool and potentially cause disease in other people if transmitted. The safety and effectiveness of this vaccine has not been studied in the general population or in people with weakened immune systems, and it is not approved for use outside of the military. There is currently no adenovirus vaccine available to the general public. For more information about the vaccine, see Adenovirus Vaccine Information Statement (VIS).
treatment adenoviruses infection?
There is no specific treatment for people with adenovirus infection. Most adenovirus infections are mild and may require only care to help relieve symptoms, such as over-the-counter pain medicines or fever reducers. Always read the label and use medications as directed. There are no approved antiviral medicines for adenovirus infections.
what is ADHD?
ADHD is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders of childhood. It is usually first diagnosed in childhood and often lasts into adulthood. Children with ADHD may have trouble paying attention, controlling impulsive behaviors (may act without thinking about what the result will be), or be overly active.
Signs and Symptoms of ADHD?
It is normal for children to have trouble focusing and behaving at one time or another. However, children with ADHD do not just grow out of these behaviors. The symptoms continue, can be severe, and can cause difficulty at school, at home, or with friends.
Symptoms of ADHD?
1)daydream a lot 2)forget or lose things a lot 3)squirm or fidget 4)talk too much 5)make careless mistakes or take unnecessary risks 6)have a hard time resisting temptation 7)have trouble taking turns 8)have difficulty getting along with others
Types of ADHD
There are three different types of ADHD, depending on which types of symptoms are strongest in the individual
Causes of ADHD?
Scientists are studying cause(s) and risk factors in an effort to find better ways to manage and reduce the chances of a person having ADHD. The cause(s) and risk factors for ADHD are unknown, but current research shows that genetics plays an important role. Recent studies of twins link genes with ADHD.1
Diagnosis of ADHD?
Deciding if a child has ADHD is a process with several steps. There is no single test to diagnose ADHD, and many other problems, like anxiety, depression, sleep problems, and certain types of learning disabilities, can have similar symptoms. One step of the process involves having a medical exam, including hearing and vision tests, to rule out other problems with symptoms like ADHD. Diagnosing ADHD usually includes a checklist for rating ADHD symptoms and taking a history of the child from parents, teachers, and sometimes, the child.
Treatments of ADHD?
physician speaking to family
In most cases, ADHD is best treated with a combination of behavior therapy and medication. For preschool-aged children (4-5 years of age) with ADHD, behavior therapy, particularly training for parents, is recommended as the first line of treatment before medication is tried. What works best can depend on the child and family. Good treatment plans will include close monitoring, follow-ups, and making changes, if needed, along the way.
What is atrial fibrillation?
Atrial fibrillation, often called AFib or AF, is the most common type of treated heart arrhythmia. An arrhythmia is when the heart beats too slowly, too fast, or in an irregular way.When a person has AFib, the normal beating in the upper chambers of the heart (the two atria) is irregular, and blood doesn’t flow as well as it should from the atria to the lower chambers of the heart (the two ventricles). AFib may happen in brief episodes, or it may be a permanent condition.
Facts About AFib?
It is estimated that between 2.7 million and 6.1 million people in the United States have AFib. As the U.S. population ages, this number is expected to increase.1,2.In 2017, AFib was mentioned on 166,793 death certificates and was the underlying cause of death in 26,077 of those deaths.3People of European descent are more likely to have AFib than African Americans.Because the number of AFib cases increases with age and women generally live longer than men, more women than men experience AFib.
What are the symptoms of AFib?
Some people who have AFib don’t know they have it and don’t have any symptoms. Others may experience one or more of the following symptoms: 1)Irregular heartbeat 2)Heart palpitations (rapid, fluttering, or pounding) 3)Lightheadedness 4)Extreme fatigue 5)Shortness of breath 6)Chest pain 
What are the risk factors for AFib?
The risk for AFib increases with age. High blood pressure, the risk for which also increases with advancing age, accounts for about 1 in 5 cases of AFib.
How is AFib related to stroke?
AFib increases a person’s risk for stroke. When standard stroke risk factors were accounted for, AFib was associated with a four- to fivefold increased risk of ischemic stroke.6 AFib causes about 1 in 7 strokes.Strokes caused by complications from AFib tend to be more severe than strokes with other underlying causes. Strokes happen when blood flow to the brain is blocked by a blood clot or by fatty deposits called plaque in the blood vessel lining.
How is AFib treated?
Treatment for AFib can include 1) Medicines to control the heart’s rhythm and rate 2) Blood-thinning medicine to prevent blood clots from forming and reduce stroke risk 3) Surgery 4) Medicine and healthy lifestyle changes to manage AFib risk factors
What are the consequences of AFib?
More than 454,000 hospitalizations with AFib as the primary diagnosis happen each year in the United States.4 The condition contributes to about 158,000 deaths each year.3 The death rate from AFib as the primary or a contributing cause of death has been rising for more than two decades.
What is African trypanosomiasis?
There are two types of African trypanosomiasis (also called sleeping sickness); each is named for the region of Africa in which they were found historically. East African trypanosomiasis is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense. West African trypanosomiasis is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma brucei gambiense. Both types of African trypanosomiasis are transmitted by the tsetse fly which is found only in rural Africa.
How is African trypanosomiasis spread?
A person will get East or West African trypanosomiasis if he or she is bitten by a tsetse fly infected with the Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense or Trypanosoma brucei gambiense parasite respectively. The proportion of tsetse flies that are infected with these parasites is low. The tsetse fly is found only in rural Africa. Occasionally an infected pregnant woman may pass T. brucei gambiense infection to her baby. Other routes of transmission are possible though rare and poorly documented (sexual, blood transfusion and organ transplantation).
Is African trypanosomiasis a serious illness?
Yes. East and West African trypanosomiasis are eventually fatal if not treated.
Where can you become infected with African trypanosomiasis?
East African trypanosomiasis is found in rural parts of Eastern and Southeastern Africa. Since 2015, fewer than 100 cases have been reported annually to WHO (https://www.who.int/gho/neglected_diseases/human_african_trypanosomiasis/en/external icon ).West African trypanosomiasis is found in rural parts of central Africa and in a few areas of West Africa. In recent years, fewer than 2000 new cases of West African trypanosomiasis have been reported to the World Health Organization annually; more than 50% of these were reported by the Democratic Republic of Congo (https://www.who.int/gho/neglected_diseases/human_african_trypanosomiasis/en/external icon ).
What are the signs and symptoms of African trypanosomiasis?
Infection occurs in two stages: a first stage where the parasites are found in the blood and lymphatic system, followed by a second stage after the parasites invade the central nervous system. East African trypanosomiasis is a more acute disease than West African trypanosomiasis, progressing to the second phase within a few weeks. West African trypanosomiasis disease progresses more slowly, with a mean duration estimated at 3 years. With East African trypanosomiasis, a bite by the tsetse fly is often painful and can develop into a red sore, also called a chancre. This reaction is rarely seen with West African trypanosomiasis. Fever, severe headaches, irritability, extreme fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, and aching muscles and joints are common symptoms of sleeping sickness. Some people develop a skin rash. Progressive confusion, personality changes, and other neurologic problems occur after infection has invaded the central nervous system (second stage). If left untreated, the illness becomes worse and death will occur within months.
How soon after infection will I have symptoms of African trypanosomiasis?
For East African trypanosomiasis, symptoms usually occur within 1 to 3 weeks after an infective bite. For West African trypanosomiasis, symptoms may be minimal or intermittent during the first months of infection. They are usually apparent within a few months to a year after getting an infected tsetse fly bite.
What should I do if I think I may have African trypanosomiasis?
If you suspect that you may have African trypanosomiasis, immediately consult with your health care provider. There are several tests that can be done to look for the parasite (e.g., skin biopsy of the chancre, blood tests, and a spinal tap).
What is the treatment for African trypanosomiasis?
Medical treatment of African trypanosomiasis should begin as soon as possible and is guided by the infected person’s laboratory results. Hospitalization for treatment is usually necessary. Follow-up may require lumbar puncture every 6 months (or sooner if symptoms return) for 2 years.
Once infected am I immune to African trypanosomiasis?
Even if you had the disease once, you can become re-infected.
Who is at risk for contracting African trypanosomiasis?
The tsetse flies that transmit African trypanosomiasis are found in rural areas in endemic countries. They inhabit forests and savannah areas as well as areas of thick vegetation along rivers and waterholes, depending on the species of fly. Travelers to urban areas in those endemic countries are at minimal risk, although transmission has been observed in some urban settings in the past. The flies bite during daylight hours. In areas where the disease is present, most flies are not infected with the parasite that causes African trypanosomiasis, so the risk of infection increases with the number of times a person is bitten by the tsetse fly. The persons most likely to be exposed to the parasite that causes African trypanosomiasis infection are hunters and villagers with infected cattle herds. Tourists and others working in or visiting game parks may be at risk for contracting African trypanosomiasis if they spend long periods of time in rural areas where the disease is present. Since the tsetse flies that transmit African trypanosomiasis are only found in endemic countries within Africa, the disease cannot be contracted within the United States.
Can I take a medication to prevent African trypanosomiasis?
There is neither a vaccine nor recommended drug available to prevent African trypanosomiasis.
How can I prevent African trypanosomiasis and prevent other insect bites?
Wear protective clothing, including long-sleeved shirts and pants. The tsetse fly can bite through thin fabrics, so clothing should be made of medium-weight material.Wear neutral-colored clothing. The tsetse fly is attracted to bright colors and very dark colors.Inspect vehicles for tsetse flies before entering. The flies are attracted to moving vehicles.Avoid bushes. The tsetse fly is less active during the hottest period of the day. It rests in bushes but will bite if disturbed.Use insect repellant. Though insect repellants have not proven effective in preventing tsetse fly bites, they are effective in preventing other insects from biting and causing illness.
cause of AHF?
Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever (AHF) is caused by Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever virus (AHFV), a tick-borne virus of the Flavivirus family. The virus was initially isolated in 1995 from a patient in Saudi Arabia. Subsequent cases of AHF have been documented in tourists in Egypt, extending the geographic range of the virus and suggesting that geographic distribution of the virus is wide and that infections due to AHFV are underreported.
cause of Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever?
Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever (AHF) is caused by Alkhurma hemorrhagic fever virus (AHFV), a tick-borne virus of the Flavivirus family. The virus was initially isolated in 1995 from a patient in Saudi Arabia. Subsequent cases of AHF have been documented in tourists in Egypt, extending the geographic range of the virus and suggesting that geographic distribution of the virus is wide and that infections due to AHFV are underreported
symptoms of AHF?
Based on limited information, after an incubation period that could be as short as 2-4 days, the disease presents initially with non-specific flu-like symptoms, including fever, anorexia (loss of appetite), general malaise, diarrhea, and vomiting; a second phase has appeared in some patients, and includes neurologic and hemorrhagic symptoms in severe form. Multi-organ failure precedes fatal outcomes. No repeated or chronic symptoms have been reported following recovery. Evidence suggests that a milder form may exist, where hospitalization is not required.
Diagnosis of AHF?
Clinical diagnosis could be difficult due to similarities between AVHF, Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic fever (CCHF), and Rift Valley fever (RVF), which occur in similar geographic areas. Laboratory diagnosis of AHF can be made in the early stage of the illness by molecular detection by PCR or virus isolation from blood. Later, serologic testing using enzyme-linked immunosorbent serologic assay (ELISA) can be performed.
Treatment of AHF
There is no standard specific treatment for the disease. Patients receive supportive therapy, which consists of balancing the patient’s fluid and electrolytes, maintaining oxygen status and blood pressure, and treatment for any complications. Mortality in hospitalized patients ranges from 1-20%.
What is Alzheimer’s Disease?
The most common type of dementia.A progressive disease beginning with mild memory loss possibly leading to loss of the ability to carry on a conversation and respond to the environment.Involves parts of the brain that control thought, memory, and language.Can seriously affect a person’s ability to carry out daily activities.Although scientists are learning more every day, right now, they still do not know what causes Alzheimer’s disease.
In 2014, as many as 5 million Americans were living with Alzheimer’s disease.1The symptoms of the disease can first appear after age 60 and the risk increases with age.Younger people may get Alzheimer’s disease, but it is less common.The number of people living with the disease doubles every 5 years beyond age 65.This number is projected to nearly triple to 14 million people by 2060.1
What is known about Alzheimer’s Disease?
Scientists do not yet fully understand what causes Alzheimer’s disease. There probably is not one single cause, but several factors that affect each person differently.Age is the best known risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease.
Family history-researchers believe that genetics may play a role in developing Alzheimer’s disease.
Changes in the brain can begin years before the first symptoms appear.
Researchers are studying whether education, diet, and environment play a role in developing Alzheimer’s disease.
Scientists are finding more evidence that some of the risk factors for heart disease and stroke, such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol may also increase the risk of Alzheimer’s.  
disease.There is growing evidence that physical, mental, and social activities may reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s disease.
How do I know if it’s Alzheimer’s disease?
Alzheimer’s disease is not a normal part of aging.Memory problems are typically one of the first warning signs of cognitive loss.According to the National Institute on Aging, in addition to memory problems, someone with Alzheimer’s disease may experience one or more of the following signs:1)Familial Women hugging 2)Memory loss that disrupts daily life, such as getting lost in a familiar place or repeating questions.3)Trouble handling money and paying bills.4)Difficulty completing familiar tasks at home, at work or at leisure.5)Decreased or poor judgment.6)Misplaces things and being unable to retrace steps to find them.7)Changes in mood, personality, or behavioral.8)If you or someone you know has several or even most of the signs listed above, it does not mean that you or they have Alzheimer’s disease. It is important to consult a health care provider when you or someone you know has concerns about memory loss, thinking skills, or behavioral changes.
causes of Alzheimer’s Disease
Some causes for symptoms, such as depression and drug interactions, are reversible. However, they can be serious and should be identified and treated by a health care provider as soon as possible.
Early and accurate diagnosis provides opportunities for you and your family to consider or review financial planning, develop advance directives, enroll in clinical trials, and anticipate care needs.
How is Alzheimer’s disease treated?
Treatment addresses several different areas:1)Helping people maintain mental function.2)Managing behavioral symptoms.3)Slowing or delaying the symptoms of the disease.
what is Amebiasis?
Amebiasis is a disease caused by a one-celled parasite called Entamoeba histolytica.
cause of amebiasis?
Although anyone can have this disease, it is more common in people who live in tropical areas with poor sanitary conditions. In the United States, amebiasis is most common in:1)People who have traveled to tropical places that have poor sanitary conditions 2)Immigrants from tropical countries that have poor sanitary conditions 3)People who live in institutions that have poor sanitary conditions 4)Men who have sex with men
Symptoms of amebiasis?
Only about 10% to 20% of people who are infected with E. histolytica become sick from the infection. The symptoms are often quite mild and can include loose feces (poop), stomach pain, and stomach cramping. Amebic dysentery is a severe form of amebiasis associated with stomach pain, bloody stools (poop), and fever. Rarely, E. histolytica invades the liver and forms an abscess (a collection of pus). In a small number of instances, it has been shown to spread to other parts of the body, such as the lungs or brain, but this is very uncommon.
treatment of amebiasis?
Several antibiotics are available to treat amebiasis. Treatment must be prescribed by a physician. You will be treated with only one antibiotic if your E. histolytica infection has not made you sick. You probably will be treated with two antibiotics (first one and then the other) if your infection has made you sick.
What is Chagas disease?
Chagas disease is caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, which is transmitted to animals and people by insect vectors that are found only in the Americas (mainly, in rural areas of Latin America where poverty is widespread). Chagas disease (T. cruzi infection) is also referred to as American trypanosomiasis.It is estimated that as many as 8 million people in Mexico, Central America, and South America have Chagas disease, most of whom do not know they are infected. If untreated, infection is lifelong and can be life threatening.The impact of Chagas disease is not limited to only rural areas of Latin America in which vectorborne transmission (diseases transmitted by insects) occurs. Large-scale population movements from rural to urban areas of Latin America and to other regions of the world have increased the geographic distribution and changed the epidemiology of Chagas disease. In the United States and in other regions where Chagas disease is now found but is not endemic, control strategies should focus on preventing transmission from blood transfusion, organ transplantation, and mother-to-baby (congenital transmission).
How do people get Chagas disease?
People can become infected in several ways. In areas where Chagas disease is common, the main way is through vectorborne transmission. The insect vectors are called triatomine bugs. These blood-sucking bugs get infected with T. cruzi by biting an infected animal or person. Once infected, the bugs pass the parasites in their feces. The bugs are found in houses made from materials such as mud, adobe, straw, and palm thatch. During the day, the bugs hide in crevices in the walls and roofs. During the night, when the inhabitants are sleeping, the bugs emerge. Because they tend to bite people’s faces, triatomine bugs are also known as "kissing bugs". After they bite and ingest blood, they defecate (poop) on the person. The person can become infected if T. cruzi parasites in the bug feces enter the body through mucous membranes or breaks in the skin. The unsuspecting, sleeping person may accidentally scratch or rub the feces into the bite wound, eyes, or mouth.
is contaminated with feces (poop) from infected triatomine bugs; and
In what parts of the world is Chagas disease found?
People who have Chagas disease can be found anywhere in the world. However, transmission of the disease by kissing bugs (vectorborne transmission), only occurs in the Americas. Most people with Chagas disease became infected in rural areas of Mexico, Central America, and South America. In some regions of Latin America, efforts to eliminate kissing bugs, called vector control programs, have succeeded in stopping this type of disease spread. Vectorborne transmission does not occur in the Caribbean (for example, in Puerto Rico or Cuba). Rare vectorborne cases of Chagas disease have been noted in the southern United States.
What are the signs and symptoms of Chagas disease?
Much of the clinical information about Chagas disease comes from experience with people who became infected as children through contact with triatomines. The severity and course of an individual infection can vary based on a number of factors, including the age at which a person became infected, the way in which a person acquired the infection, or the particular strain of the T. cruzi parasite.
How is Chagas disease treated?
Two approaches to therapy, that can be life-saving include:Antiparasitic treatment, to kill the parasite; and Symptomatic treatment, to manage the symptoms and signs of infection.
what is Anaplasmosis?
Anaplasmosis is a disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum. These bacteria are spread to people by tick bites primarily from the blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) and the western blacklegged tick (Ixodes pacificus).
cause of anaplasmosis?
Anaplasmosis is a tickborne disease caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum.
symptoms of anaplasmosis?
Signs and symptoms of anaplasmosis typically begin within 1–2 weeks after the bite of an infected tick.Tick bites are usually painless, and many people do not remember being bitten.See your healthcare provider if you become ill after having been bitten by a tick or having been in the woods or in areas with high brush where ticks commonly live.
Diagnosis and Testing of anaplasmosis?
Your healthcare provider can order certain blood tests to look for evidence of anaplasmosis or other illnesses that cause similar symptoms.
Test results may take several weeks.If your healthcare provider thinks you have anaplasmosis, or another tickborne infection, he or she may prescribe antibiotics while you wait for test results.
prevention of anaplasmosis?
There is no vaccine to prevent anaplasmosis. Prevent illness by preventing tick bites,  preventing ticks on your pets,  and preventing ticks in your yard.Ticks live in grassy, brushy, or wooded areas, or even on animals, so spending time outside camping, gardening, or hunting will bring you in close contact with ticks. Protect yourself, your family, and your pets. Here’s how:Ticks can be active year-round, but ticks are most active during warmer months (April-September).
What is hookworm?
Hookworm is an intestinal parasite of humans. The larvae and adult worms live in the small intestine can cause intestinal disease. The two main species of hookworm infecting humans are Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus.
How is hookworm spread?
Hookworm eggs are passed in the feces of an infected person. If an infected person defecates outside (near bushes, in a garden, or field) or if the feces from an infected person are used as fertilizer, eggs are deposited on soil. They can then mature and hatch, releasing larvae (immature worms). The larvae mature into a form that can penetrate the skin of humans. Hookworm infection is transmitted primarily by walking barefoot on contaminated soil. One kind of hookworm (Ancylostoma duodenale)can also be transmitted through the ingestion of larvae.
Who is at risk for infection?
People living in areas with warm and moist climates and where sanitation and hygiene are poor are at risk for hookworm infection if they walk barefoot or in other ways allow their skin to have direct contact with contaminated soil. Soil is contaminated by an infected person defecating outside or when human feces ("night soil") are used as fertilizer. Children who play in contaminated soil may also be at risk.
What are the signs and symptoms of hookworm?
Itching and a localized rash are often the first signs of infection. These symptoms occur when the larvae penetrate the skin. A person with a light infection may have no symptoms. A person with a heavy infection may experience abdominal pain, diarrhea, loss of appetite, weight loss, fatigue and anemia. The physical and cognitive growth of children can be affected.
How is hookworm diagnosed?
Health care providers can diagnose hookworm by taking a stool sample and using a microscope to look for the presence of hookworm eggs.
How can I prevent infection?
Do not walk barefoot in areas where hookworm is common and where there may be fecal contamination of the soil. Avoid other skin-to-soil contact and avoid ingesting such soil. Fecal contamination occurs when people defecate outdoors or use human feces as fertilizer.The infection of others can be prevented by not defecating outdoors or using human feces as fertilizer, and by effective sewage disposal systems.
What is the treatment for hookworm?
Hookworm infections are generally treated for 1-3 days with medication prescribed by your health care provider. The drugs are effective and appear to have few side effects. Iron supplements may be prescribed if you have anemia.
What is preventive treatment?
In developing countries, groups at higher risk for soil-transmitted helminth infections (hookworm, Ascaris, and whipworm) are often treated without a prior stool examination. Treating in this way is called preventive treatment (or "preventive chemotherapy"). The high-risk groups identified by the World Health Organization are preschool and school-age children, women of childbearing age (including pregnant women in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters and lactating women) and adults in occupations where there is a high risk of heavy infections. School-age children are often treated through school-health programs and preschool children and pregnant women at visits to health clinics.
What is mass drug administration (MDA)?
The soil-transmitted helminths (hookworm, Ascaris, and whipworm) and four other "neglected tropical diseases" (river blindness, lymphatic filariasis, schistosomiasis and trachoma) are sometimes treated through mass drug administrations. Since the drugs used are safe and inexpensive or donated, entire risk groups are offered preventive treatment. Mass drug administrations are conducted periodically (often annually), commonly with drug distributors who go door-to-door. Multiple neglected tropical diseases are often treated simultaneously using MDAs.
what is Angiostrongylus cantonensis?
Angiostrongylus cantonensis is a parasitic worm of rats. It is also called the rat lungworm. The adult form of the parasite is found only in rodents. Infected rats pass larvae of the parasite in their feces. Snails and slugs get infected by ingesting the larvae. These larvae mature in snails and slugs but do not become adult worms. The life cycle is completed when rats eat infected snails or slugs and the larvae further mature to become adult worms.
cause of Angiostrongylus cantonensis?
People can get infected by eating raw or undercooked snails or slugs that are infected with this parasite. In some cultures, snails are commonly eaten. Some children, in particular, have gotten infected by swallowing snails/slugs "on a dare. " People also can get infected by accident, by eating raw produce (such as lettuce) that contains a small snail or slug or part of one.Certain animals such freshwater shrimp, crabs, or frogs, have been found to be infected with larvae of the parasite. It is possible that eating undercooked or raw animals that are infected could result in people becoming infected, though the evidence for this is not as clear as for eating infected snails and slugs. Of note, fish do not spread this parasite.
symptoms of Angiostrongylus cantonensis?
Some infected people don’t have any symptoms - or have only mild symptoms that don’t last very long. Sometimes the infection causes a rare type of meningitis (eosinophilic meningitis). The symptoms can include headache, stiff neck, tingling or painful feelings in the skin, low-grade fever, nausea, and vomiting.
What is anisakiasis?
Anisakiasis, or herring worm disease, is a parasitic disease caused by nematodes (worms) that attach to the wall of the esophagus, stomach, or intestine. The best ways to prevent this disease is to avoid eating raw or undercooked fish or squid.
cause of anisakiasis?
When certain infected marine mammals (such as whales or sea lions) defecate into the sea, eggs are released and become infective larvae while in the water. These larvae are ingested by crustaceans, which are then eaten by fish or squid. When humans eat raw or undercooked infected fish or squid, they ingest nematode larvae. Once inside the human body, the larvae can invade the gastrointestinal tract. Eventually, the parasite dies and produces an inflamed mass in the esophagus, stomach, or intestine.Some people experience a tingling sensation after or while eating raw or undercooked fish or squid. This is actually the worm moving in the mouth or throat. These people can often extract the worm manually from their mouth or cough up the worm and prevent infection. Also, some people experience vomiting as a symptom and this can often expel the worm from the body.
Where is anisakiasis found?
Anisakiasis is most commonly found in areas where eating raw fish is popular, such as Japan. However, since eating undercooked fish is becoming more common, there have been cases seen in the United States, Europe, South America, and other areas of the world. Anyone who eats undercooked or raw fish or squid is at risk.
How is anisakiasis diagnosed?
A history of eating undercooked fish or squid is helpful. Diagnosis is generally made by endoscopy, radiography, or surgery if the worm has embedded.
What are the signs and symptoms of anisakiasis?
The signs and symptoms of anisakiasis are abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, abdominal distention, diarrhea, blood and mucus in stool, and mild fever. Allergic reactions with rash and itching, and infrequently, anaphylaxis, can also occur.
How can I prevent anisakiasis?
Do not eat raw or undercooked fish or squid.
What is the treatment of anisakiasis?
The treatment for anisakiasis may require removal of the worm from the body by endoscopy or surgery.
What is anthrax?
Anthrax is a serious infectious disease caused by gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria known as Bacillus anthracis. Anthrax can be found naturally in soil and commonly affects domestic and wild animals around the world. Although it is rare in the United States, people can get sick with anthrax if they come in contact with infected animals or contaminated animal products. Contact with anthrax can cause severe illness in both humans and animals.Anthrax is not contagious, which means you can’t catch it like the cold or flu.
How do animals get infected with anthrax?
Domestic and wild animals such as cattle, sheep, goats, antelope, and deer can become infected when they breathe in or ingest spores in contaminated soil, plants, or water. In areas where domestic animals have had anthrax in the past, routine vaccination can help prevent outbreaks.
How do people get infected with anthrax?
People get infected with anthrax when spores get into the body. When anthrax spores get inside the body, they can be "activated." When they become active, the bacteria can multiply, spread out in the body, produce toxins (poisons), and cause severe illness.This can happen when people breathe in spores, eat food or drink water that is contaminated with spores, or get spores in a cut or scrape in the skin. It is very uncommon for people in the United States to get infected with anthrax.Certain activities can also increase a person’s chances of getting infected. For more information, see How People Are Infected.
Where is anthrax found?
Anthrax is most common in agricultural regions of Central and South America, sub-Saharan Africa, central and southwestern Asia, southern and eastern Europe, and the Caribbean.Anthrax is rare in the United States, but sporadic outbreaks do occur in wild and domestic grazing animals such as cattle or deer. Anthrax is more common in developing countries and countries that do not have veterinary public health programs that routinely vaccinate animals against anthrax. In the United States, yearly vaccination of livestock is recommended in areas where animals have had anthrax in the past.
What is aortic aneurysm?
An aortic aneurysm is a balloon-like bulge in the aorta, the large artery that carries blood from the heart through the chest and torso.
What are the risk factors for aortic aneurysm?
Diseases and unhealthy behaviors that damage your heart and blood vessels also increase your risk for aortic aneurysm. Smoking is the most important behavior related to aortic aneurysm.
How are aortic aneurysms treated?
The two main treatments for aortic aneurysms are medicines and surgery. Medicines can lower blood pressure and reduce risk for an aortic aneurysm. Surgery can repair or replace the affected section of the aorta.
what is Arthritis?
Arthritis includes over 100 different conditions and affects about 1 in 4 adults. Arthritis affects many aspects of their lives. arithiritis is pain in bones.
Symptoms of Arithiritis?
General symptoms of arthritis are joint pain, stiffness, and swelling, but different types have unique symptoms. Learn more about symptoms of different types of arthritis.
Treatment of arithiritis?
we recomend walking and execising. work on you weight and daily routine
What is ascariasis?
Ascaris is an intestinal parasite of humans. It is the most common human worm infection. The larvae and adult worms live in the small intestine and can cause intestinal disease.
How is ascariasis spread?
Ascaris lives in the intestine and Ascaris eggs are passed in the feces of infected persons. If the infected person defecates outside (near bushes, in a garden, or field), or if the feces of an infected person are used as fertilizer, then eggs are deposited on the soil. They can then mature into a form that is infective. Ascariasis is caused by ingesting infective eggs. This can happen when hands or fingers that have contaminated dirt on them are put in the mouth or by consuming vegetables or fruits that have not been carefully cooked, washed or peeled.
Who is at risk for ascariasis infection?
Infection occurs worldwide in warm and humid climates, where sanitation and hygiene are poor, including in temperate zones during warmer months. Persons in these areas are at risk if soil contaminated with human feces enters their mouths or if they eat vegetables or fruit that have not been carefully washed, peeled or cooked. Ascariasis is now uncommon in the United States.
What are the symptoms of ascariasis?
People infected with Ascaris often show no symptoms. If symptoms do occur they can be light and include abdominal discomfort. Heavy infections can cause intestinal blockage and impair growth in children. Other symptoms such as cough are due to migration of the worms through the body.
How is ascariasis diagnosed?
Health care providers can diagnose ascariasis by taking a stool sample and using a microscope to look for the presence of eggs. Some people notice infection when a worm is passed in their stool or is coughed up. If this happens, bring in the worm specimen to your health care provider for diagnosis.
How can I prevent ascariasis infection?
Avoid contact with soil that may be contaminated with human feces, including with human fecal matter ("night soil") used to fertilize crops.Wash your hands with soap and warm water before handling food.Teach children the importance of washing hands to prevent infection.Wash, peel, or cook all raw vegetables and fruits before eating, particularly those that have been grown in soil that has been fertilized with manur
What is the treatment for ascariasis?
Anthelminthic medications (drugs that rid the body of parasitic worms), such as albendazole and mebendazole, are the drugs of choice for treatment. Infections are generally treated for 1-3 days. The recommended medications are effective.
What is preventive treatment?
In developing countries, groups at higher risk for soil-transmitted helminth infections (hookworm, Ascaris, and whipworm) are often treated without a prior stool examination. Treating in this way is called preventive treatment (or "preventive chemotherapy"). The high-risk groups identified by the World Health Organization are preschool and school-age children, women of childbearing age (including pregnant women in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters and lactating women) and adults in occupations where there is a high risk of heavy infections. School-age children are often treated through school-health programs and preschool children and pregnant women at visits to health clinics.
What is mass drug administration (MDA)?
The soil-transmitted helminths (hookworm, Ascaris, and whipworm) and four other "neglected tropical diseases" (river blindness, lymphatic filariasis, schistosomiasis and trachoma) are sometimes treated through mass drug administrations. Since the drugs used are safe and inexpensive or donated, entire risk groups are offered preventive treatment. Mass drug administrations are conducted periodically (often annually), commonly with drug distributors who go door-to-door. Multiple neglected tropical diseases are often treated simultaneously using MDAs.
What is aspergillosis?
Aspergillosis is a disease caused by Aspergillus, a common mold (a type of fungus) that lives indoors and outdoors. Most people breathe in Aspergillus spores every day without getting sick. However, people with weakened immune systems or lung diseases are at a higher risk of developing health problems due to Aspergillus. There are different types of aspergillosis. Some types are mild, but some of them are very serious.
What Is Asthma?
Asthma is a disease that affects your lungs. It is one of the most common long-term diseases of children, but adults can have asthma, too.
How Can You Tell if You Have Asthma?
It can be hard to tell if someone has asthma, especially in children under age 5. Having a doctor check how well your lungs work and checkfor allergies can help you find out if you have asthma.During a checkup, a doctor will ask if you cough a lot, especially at night. He or she will also ask whether your breathing problems are worse after physical activity or at certain times of year. The doctor will then ask about chest tightness, wheezing, and colds lasting more than 10 days. He or she will ask whether anyone in your family has or has had asthma, allergies, or other breathing problems. Finally, the doctor will ask questions about your home and whether you have missed school or work or have trouble doing certain things.
What Is an Asthma Attack?
An asthma attack may include coughing, chest tightness, wheezing, and trouble breathing. The attack happens in your body’s airways, which are the paths that carry air to your lungs. As the air moves through your lungs, the airways become smaller, like the branches of a tree are smaller than the tree trunk. During an asthma attack, the sides of the airways in your lungs swell and the airways shrink. Less air gets in and out of your lungs, and mucous that your body makes clogs up the airways.
How Is Asthma Treated?
Take your medicine exactly as your doctor tells you and stay away from things that can trigger an attack to control your asthma.
What is atrial fibrillation?
Atrial fibrillation, often called AFib or AF, is the most common type of treated heart arrhythmia. An arrhythmia is when the heart beats too slowly, too fast, or in an irregular way.When a person has AFib, the normal beating in the upper chambers of the heart (the two atria) is irregular, and blood doesn’t flow as well as it should from the atria to the lower chambers of the heart (the two ventricles). AFib may happen in brief episodes, or it may be a permanent condition.
What are the symptoms of AFib?
Some people who have AFib don’t know they have it and don’t have any symptoms. Others may experience one or more of the following symptoms:1) Irregular heartbeat 2) Heart palpitations (rapid, fluttering, or pounding) 3)Lightheadedness 4)Extreme fatigue 5)Shortness of breath 6)Chest pain
How is AFib treated?
Treatment for AFib can include,Medicines to control the heart’s rhythm and rate.Blood-thinning medicine to prevent blood clots fromforming and reduce stroke risk or Surgery or Medicine and healthy lifestyle changes to manage 
what is B. cepacia?
Burkholderia cepacia [burk-hold–er–ee-uh si–pay–shee–uh] (also called B. cepacia) is the name for a group or "complex" of bacteria that can be found in soil and water. B. cepacia bacteria are often resistant to common antibiotics.
Populations susceptible to B. cepacia infection?
B. cepacia poses little medical risk to healthy people. However, people who have certain health problems like weakened immune systems or chronic lung diseases, particularly cystic fibrosisexternal icon, may be more susceptible to infections with B. cepacia. B cepacia is a known cause of infections in hospitalized patients.
Symptoms of B. cepacia infection?
The effects of B. cepacia on people vary widely, ranging from no symptoms at all to serious respiratory infections, especially in patients with cystic fibrosis.
Treatment of B. cepacia infection?
B. cepacia can be resistant to many common antibiotics. Decisions on the treatment of infections with B. cepacia should be made on a case-by-case basis.
What is babesiosis?
Babesiosis is a disease caused by microscopic parasites that infect red blood cells. Many different species (types) of Babesia parasites have been found in animals, only a few of which have been found in people. Babesia microti-which usually infects white-footed mice and other small mammals-is the main species that has been found in people in the United States. Occasional cases caused by other Babesia species have been detected.
How do people get infected with Babesia?
The main way is through the bite of an infected tick.Babesia microti is spread by Ixodes scapularis ticks, which are commonly called blacklegged ticks or deer ticks. (Although white-tailed deer are the most important food source for the adult stage of the tick, deer are not infected with B. microti.)The parasite typically is spread by the young nymph stage of the tick. Nymphs are mostly found during warm months (spring and summer) in areas with woods, brush, or grass.Infected people might not recall a tick bite because I. scapularis nymphs are very small (about the size of a poppy seed).
What are the symptoms and signs of Babesia infection?
Many people who are infected with Babesia microti feel fine and do not have any symptoms. Some people develop flu-like symptoms, such as fever, chills, sweats, headache, body aches, loss of appetite, nausea, or fatigue. Because Babesia parasites infect red blood cells, babesiosis can cause hemolytic anemia (from the destruction of red blood cells).
Can babesiosis be treated?
Yes. Effective treatments are available. People who do not have symptoms or signs of babesiosis usually do not need to be treated. The first step is to make sure the diagnosis is correct.
What is anthrax?
Anthrax is a serious infectious disease caused by gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria known as Bacillus anthracis. Anthrax can be found naturally in soil and commonly affects domestic and wild animals around the world. Although it is rare in the United States, people can get sick with anthrax if they come in contact with infected animals or contaminated animal products. Contact with anthrax can cause severe illness in both humans and animals.
How do animals get infected with anthrax?
Domestic and wild animals such as cattle, sheep, goats, antelope, and deer can become infected when they breathe in or ingest spores in contaminated soil, plants, or water. In areas where domestic animals have had anthrax in the past, routine vaccination can help prevent outbreaks.
How do people get infected with anthrax?
People get infected with anthrax when spores get into the body. When anthrax spores get inside the body, they can be "activated." When they become active, the bacteria can multiply, spread out in the body, produce toxins (poisons), and cause severe illness.
Where is anthrax found?
Anthrax is most common in agricultural regions of Central and South America, sub-Saharan Africa, central and southwestern Asia, southern and eastern Europe, and the Caribbean.Anthrax is rare in the United States, but sporadic outbreaks do occur in wild and domestic grazing animals such as cattle or deer. Anthrax is more common in developing countries and countries that do not have veterinary public health programs that routinely vaccinate animals against anthrax. In the United States, yearly vaccination of livestock is recommended in areas where animals have had anthrax in the past. For more information, 
what is Bacterial meningitis?
Bacterial meningitis is very serious and can be deadly. Death can occur in as little as a few hours. Most people recover from meningitis. However, permanent disabilities (such as brain damage, hearing loss, and learning disabilities) can result from the infection.
Causes of Bacterial meningitis?
Common causes of bacterial meningitis vary by age group:Newborns: Group B Streptococcus, S. pneumoniae, L. monocytogenes, E. coli . Babies and children: S. pneumoniae, N. meningitidis, H. influenzae type b (Hib), group B Streptococcus . Teens and young adults: N. meningitidis, S. pneumoniae . Older adults: S. pneumoniae, N. meningitidis, Hib, group B Streptococcus, L. monocytogenes
How Bacterial meningitis?
Generally, the germs that cause bacterial meningitis spread from one person to another. Certain germs, such as L. monocytogenes, can spread through food.How people spread the germs often depends on the type of bacteria. It is also important to know that people can have these bacteria in or on their bodies without being sick. These people are "carriers." Most carriers never become sick, but can still spread the bacteria to others.
Signs and Symptoms of bacterial meningitis?
Meningitis symptoms include sudden onset of 1. Fever 2. Headache 3. Stiff neck 4. Photobhobia 5. Altered mental status
Diagnosis of bacterial meningitis?
If a doctor suspects meningitis, they will collect samples of blood or cerebrospinal fluid (fluid near the spinal cord). A laboratory will test the samples to see what is causing the infection. It is important to know the specific cause of meningitis so the doctors know how to treat it.
Treatment of bacterial meningitis?
Doctors treat bacterial meningitis with a number of antibiotics. It is important to start treatment as soon as possible.
Prevention of bacterial meningitis?
Vaccines are the most effective way to protect against certain types of bacterial meningitis. There are vaccines for 3 types of bacteria that can cause meningitis.Like with any vaccine, the vaccines that protect against these bacteria are not 100% effective. The vaccines also do not protect against all the types (strains) of each bacteria. For these reasons, there is still a chance vaccinated people can develop bacterial meningitis.
What is bacterial vaginosis?
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is a condition that happens when there is too much of certain bacteria in the vagina. This changes the normal balance of bacteria in the vagina.
How common is bacterial vaginosis?
Bacterial vaginosis is the most common vaginal condition in women ages 15-44.
How is bacterial vaginosis spread?
Researchers do not know the cause of BV or how some women get it. We do know that the condition typically occurs in sexually active women. BV is linked to an imbalance of "good" and "harmful" bacteria that are normally found in a woman’s vagina. Having a new sex partner or multiple sex partners, as well as douching, can upset the balance of bacteria in the vagina. This places a woman at increased risk for getting BV.You cannot get BV from toilet seats, bedding, or swimming pools.
How can I avoid getting bacterial vaginosis?
Doctors and scientists do not completely understand how BV spreads. There are no known best ways to prevent it.The following basic prevention steps may help lower your risk of developing BV: 1. Not having sex; 2. Limiting your number of sex partners; 3. Not douching; and 4. Using latex condoms the right way every time you have sex.
what is balamuthia?
Balamuthia mandrillaris is a free-living ameba (a single-celled living organism) found in the environment. It is one of the causes of a serious infection of the brain called granulomatous amebic encephalitis (GAE) . GAE is a very rare disease that is usually fatal.
cause of balamuthia infection?
Balamuthia infection is not spread from person to person.Balamuthia is thought to enter the body when soil containing Balamuthia comes in contact with skin wounds and cuts, or when dust containing Balamuthia is breathed into the lungs. Once inside the body, the amebas can travel through the blood stream to the brain, where they cause GAE.
symptoms of Balamuthia mandrillaris?
The symptoms of Balamuthia infection can begin with a skin wound on the face, chest, torso, arms, or legs. If the infection involves the brain, the disease it causes is called granulomatous amebic encephalitis (GAE). Diagnosis of Balamuthia GAE can be difficult because symptoms are not specific to GAE. Early symptoms might include:Fever, Headache , Vomiting , Lethargy and Nausea
how long the symptoms if balamuthia mandrillaris last?
The duration of symptoms for GAE is highly variable with some people being sick for just a few days and some having symptoms for weeks or months. Although Balamuthia GAE is often fatal, there are several recorded cases of Balamuthia infection where the patients survived after long-term treatment with multiple drugs. In some of those cases, the patients were able to return to normal, functioning lives.
who is most likely to get balamuthia mandrillaris?
Balamuthia can infect anyone; this includes persons that are healthy or persons with weakened immune systems (such as persons with HIV/AIDS, cancer, liver disease, diabetes mellitus, persons taking immunosuppressive drugs, and people who have had organ transplantation).
treatment of balamuthia mandrallaris?
Currently, treatment recommendations include the use of a combination of several drugs. Most cases of Balamuthia are diagnosed right before death or after the patient has died. This delay in diagnosis limits the amount of experience doctors have using different drugs to treat Balamuthia infection. Current treatment plans are based on lab studies of the ameba and the few cases where the patients have survived.
prevent balamuthia mandrallaris?
Currently, there are no known ways to prevent infection with Balamuthia since it is unclear how and why some people become infected while others do not. Surveillance for Balamuthia infections continues so that CDC can learn more about Balamuthia in hopes of finding ways to prevent future infections.
What is Balantidium coli?
Balantidium coli is an intestinal protozoan parasite that causes the infection called balantidiasis. While this type of infection is uncommon in the United States, humans and other mammals can become infected with Balantidium coli by ingesting infective cysts from food and water that is contaminated by feces. Mostly asymptomatic, Balantidium infection can cause such symptoms as diarrhea and abdominal pain.
Where is Balantidium coli endemic?
Balantidium coli infection in humans is rare in the United States. Balantidium coli is found throughout the world, but it is most prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions and developing countries. Because pigs are an animal reservoir, human infections occur more frequently in areas where pigs are raised, especially if good hygiene is not practiced.
How is Balantidium coli transmitted?
Balantidium coli is transmitted through the fecal-oral route. Humans can become infected by eating and drinking contaminated food and water that has come into contact with infective animal or human fecal matter. Infection can occur in several ways, including the following examples:eating meat, fruits, andvegetables that have been contaminated by an infected person or contaminated by fecal matter from an infected animal,drinking and washing food with contaminated water, or having poor hygiene habits.
What are the signs and symptoms of balantidium coli?
Most people infected with Balantidium coli experience no symptoms. Balantidium coli infects the large intestine in humans and produces infective microscopic cysts that are passed in the feces, potentially leading to re-infection or infection of others. People who are immune-compromised are the most likely to experience more severe signs and symptoms. These include persistent diarrhea, dysentery, abdominal pain, weight loss, nausea, and vomiting. If left untreated, perforation of the colon can occur.
Is there a test for Balantidium coli infection?
Yes. Stool samples can be examined by a laboratory. Microscopic examination can detect Balantidium coli in the stool.
Is balantidium coli contagious?
Yes. Balantidium coli is contagious by the fecal-oral route.
Is there treatment of balatidium coli?
Yes. The three medications often used to treat Balantidium coli are tetracycline, metronidazole, and iodoquinol. See your health care provider for treatment.
How can I prevent Balantidium coli?
Balantidium coli infection can be prevented when traveling by following good hygiene practices. Wash your hands with soap and warm water after using the toilet, changing diapers, and before handling food. Teach children the importance of washing hands to prevent infection. Wash all fruits and vegetables with clean water when preparing or eating them, even if they have a removable skin.
what is Baylisascaris?
Baylisascaris worms are intestinal parasites found in a wide variety of animals. Different species of Baylisascaris are associated with different animal hosts. For example, Baylisascaris procyonis is found in raccoons, and Baylisascaris columnaris is found in skunks. Cases of Baylisascaris infection in people are not frequently reported but can be severe. Baylisascaris procyonis is thought to pose the greatest risk to people because of the often close association of raccoons to human dwellings
cause of baylisascaris?
People become infected by ingesting infectious eggs. Most infections are in children and others who are more likely to put dirt or animal waste in their mouth by mistake.
symptoms of baylisascaris?
The incubation period (time from exposure to symptoms) is usually 1 to 4 weeks. If present, signs and symptoms can include the following:Nausea,Tiredness, Liver enlargement, Loss of coordination, Lack of attention to people and surroundings, Loss of muscle control , Blindness or Coma
treatment of baylisascaris?
A health care provider can discuss treatment options with you. No drug has been found to be completely effective against Baylisascaris infection in people. Albendazole has been recommended for some cases.
what is Schistosomiasis?
Schistosomiasis, also known as bilharzia, is a disease caused by parasitic worms. Infection with Schistosoma mansoni, S. haematobium, and S. japonicum causes illness in humans; less commonly, S. mekongi and S. intercalatum can cause disease. Although the worms that cause schistosomiasis are not found in the United States, more than 200 million people are infected worldwide.
cause of Schistosomiasis?
Freshwater becomes contaminated by Schistosoma eggs when infected people urinate or defecate in the water. The eggs hatch, and if certain types of freshwater snails are present in the water, the parasites develop and multiply inside the snails. The parasite leaves the snail and enters the water where it can survive for about 48 hours. Schistosoma parasites can penetrate the skin of persons who are wading, swimming, bathing, or washing in contaminated water. Within several weeks, the parasites mature into adult worms and live in the blood vessels of the body where the females produce eggs. Some of the eggs travel to the bladder or intestine and are passed into the urine or stool.
symptoms of Schistosomiasis?
When adult worms are present, the eggs that are produced usually travel to the intestine, liver or bladder, causing inflammation or scarring. Children who are repeatedly infected can develop anemia, malnutrition, and learning difficulties. After years of infection, the parasite can also damage the liver, intestine, lungs, and bladder. Rarely, eggs are found in the brain or spinal cord and can cause seizures, paralysis, or spinal cord inflammation.
What is Blastocystis spp.?
Blastocystis is a common microscopic organism that inhabits the intestine and is found throughout the world. A full understanding of the biology of Blastocystis and its relationship to other organisms is not clear, but is an active area of research. Infection with Blastocystis is called blastocystosis.
What are the symptoms of infection with Blastocystis?
Watery or loose stools, diarrhea, abdominal pain, anal itching, weight loss, constipation, and excess gas have all been reported in persons with Blastocystis infection. Many people have no symptoms at all. The organism can be found in both well and sick persons
Is Blastocystis spp. the cause of my symptoms?
The role of Blastocystis in causing disease is controversial among experts. Some types of Blastocystis may be more likely to be associated with symptoms. Finding Blastocystis in stool samples should be followed up with a careful search for other possible causes of your symptoms.
Is having blastocystosis common?
Yes. In fact, many people have Blastocystis in their intestine, some without ever having symptoms.
What should I do if I think I have blastocystosis?
See your health care provider who will ask you to provide stool samples for testing. Diagnosis may be difficult, so you may be asked to submit several stool samples.
Is medication available to treat blastocystosis?
Yes. Drugs are available by prescription to treat blastocystosis. However, sometimes medication is not effective, and a search for other possible causes of your symptoms may be necessary.
How did I get blastocystosis?
How Blastocystis is transmitted is not known for certain, although the number of people infected seems to increase in areas where sanitation and personal hygiene is not adequate. Studies have suggested that risk of infection may increase through:ingesting contaminated food or water,exposure to a day care environment, orexposure to animals.
How can I prevent infection with Blastocystis?
Wash your hands with soap and warm water after using the toilet, changing diapers, and before handling food.Teach children the importance of washing hands to prevent infection.Avoid water or food that may be contaminated. Wash and peel all raw vegetables and fruits before eating. When traveling in countries where the water supply may be unsafe, avoid drinking unboiled tap water and avoid uncooked foods washed with unboiled tap water. Bottled or canned carbonated beverages, seltzers, pasteurized fruit drinks, and steaming hot coffee and tea are safe to drink.
what is Blastomycosis?
Blastomycosis is an infection caused by the fungus Blastomyces. The fungus lives in the environment, particularly in moist soil and in decomposing organic matter such as wood and leaves. In the United States, Blastomyces mainly lives in the midwestern, south-central, and southeastern states, particularly in areas surrounding the Ohio and Mississippi River valleys, the Great Lakes, and the Saint Lawrence River.1,2 The fungus also lives in Canada,3–4 and a few blastomycosis cases have been reported from Africa5 and India.
symptoms of blastomycosis?
Approximately half of people who are infected with the fungus Blastomyces will show symptoms.1 The symptoms of blastomycosis are often similar to the symptoms of flu or other lung infections, and can include:Fever, Cough , Night sweats , Muscle aches or joint pain , Weight loss , Chest pain or Fatigue 
How is blastomycosis treated?
Most people with blastomycosis will need treatment with prescription antifungal medication. Itraconazole is a type of antifungal medication that is typically used to treat mild to moderate blastomycosis. Amphotericin B is usually recommended for severe blastomycosis in the lungs or infections that have spread to other parts of the body. Depending on the severity of the infection and the person’s immune status, the course of treatment can range from six months to one year.
What is Venous Thromboembolism?
Deep Vein Thrombosis and Pulmonary Embolism (DVT/PE) are often underdiagnosed and serious, but preventable medical conditions.Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a medical condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a deep vein. These clots usually develop in the lower leg, thigh, or pelvis, but they can also occur in the arm.It is important to know about DVT because it can happen to anybody and can cause serious illness, disability, and in some cases, death. The good news is that DVT is preventable and treatable if discovered early.
what is body lice?
Body lice are parasitic insects that live on clothing and bedding used by infested persons. Body lice frequently lay their eggs on or near the seams of clothing. Body lice must feed on blood and usually only move to the skin to feed. Body lice exist worldwide and infest people of all races. Body lice infestations can spread rapidly under crowded living conditions where hygiene is poor (the homeless, refugees, victims of war or natural disasters). In the United States, body lice infestations are found only in homeless transient populations who do not have access to bathing and regular changes of clean clothes. Infestation is unlikely to persist on anyone who bathes regularly and who has at least weekly access to freshly laundered clothing and bedding.
where are body lice found?
Body lice generally are found on clothing and bedding used by infested people. Sometimes body lice are be seen on the body when they feed. Body lice eggs usually are seen in the seams of clothing or on bedding. Occasionally eggs are attached to body hair.
symptoms of body lice disease?
Intense itching ("pruritus") and rash caused by an allergic reaction to the louse bites are common symptoms of body lice infestation. When body lice infestation has been present for a long time, heavily bitten areas of the skin can become thickened and discolored, particularly around the midsection of the body (waist, groin, upper thighs); this condition is called "vagabond’s disease."
what is brainerd diarrhea?
Brainerd diarrhea is a syndrome of acute onset of watery diarrhea (3 or more loose stools per day) lasting 4 weeks or longer, which can occur in outbreaks or as sporadic cases. It is named after Brainerd, Minnesota, the town where the first outbreak occurred in 1983. Patients typically experience 10-20 episodes per day of explosive, watery diarrhea, characterized by urgency and often by fecal incontinence. Accompanying symptoms include gas, mild abdominal cramping, and fatigue. Nausea, vomiting, and systemic symptoms such as fever are rare, although many patients experience slight weight loss.
cause of brainerd diarrhea?
Despite extensive clinical and laboratory investigations, the cause of Brainerd diarrhea has not yet been identified. Although it is thought to be an infectious agent, intensive searches for bacterial, parasitic, and viral pathogens have been unsuccessful so far. The possibility remains that Brainerd diarrhea is caused by a chemical toxin, but no such toxin has yet been found.
what is breast cancers?
Breast cancer is a disease in which cells in the breast grow out of control. There are different kinds of breast cancer. The kind of breast cancer depends on which cells in the breast turn into cancer
symptoms of breast cancer?
New lump in the breast or underarm (armpit), Thickening or swelling of part of the breast , Irritation or dimpling of breast skin , Redness or flaky skin in the nipple area or the breast. Pulling in of the nipple or pain in the nipple area. Nipple discharge other than breast milk, including blood. Any change in the size or the shape of the breast. Pain in any area of the breast.
treatment of breat cancer?
Surgery. An operation where doctors cut out cancer tissue. Chemotherapy. Using special medicines to shrink or kill the cancer cells. The drugs can be pills you take or medicines given in your veins, or sometimes both. Hormonal therapy. Blocks cancer cells from getting the hormones they need to grow. Biological therapy. Works with your body’s immune system to help it fight cancer cells or to control side effects from other cancer treatments. Radiation therapy. Using high-energy rays (similar to X-rays) to kill the cancer cells.
what is RSV?
Respiratory syncytial (sin-SISH-uhl) virus, or RSV, is a common respiratory virus that usually causes mild, cold-like symptoms. Most people recover in a week or two, but RSV can be serious, 
for infants and older adults. In fact, RSV is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways in the lung) and pneumonia (infection of the lungs) in children younger than 1 year of age in the United States. It is also a significant cause of respiratory illness in older adults.
symptoms of RSV?
Runny nose, Decrease in appetite ,Coughing , Sneezing , Fever or Wheezing
RSV transmission?
RSV can spread when an infected person coughs or sneezes. You can get infected if you get droplets from the cough or sneeze in your eyes, nose, or mouth, or if you touch a surface that has the virus on it, like a doorknob, and then touch your face before washing your hands. Additionally, it can spread through direct contact with the virus, like kissing the face of a child with RSV.
what is bronchitis?
A chest cold occurs when the airways of the lungs swell and produce mucus in the lungs. That’s what makes you cough. A chest cold, often called acute bronchitis, lasts less than 3 weeks and is the most common type of bronchitis.
causes of bronchitis?
Acute bronchitis is usually caused by a virus and often occurs after an upper respiratory infection.Bacteria can sometimes cause acute bronchitis, but even in these cases, antibiotics are NOT recommended and will not help you get better.
symptoms of brochitis?
Symptoms of acute bronchitis last less than 3 weeks and can include:Coughing with or without mucus, Soreness in the chest , Feeling tired (fatigue), Mild headache, Mild body aches or Sore throat
Treatment of brochitis?
Acute bronchitis usually gets better on its own-without antibiotics. Antibiotics won’t help you get better if you have acute bronchitis.
what is Candida auris?
Healthcare facilities in several countries have reported that a type of yeast called Candida auris has been causing severe illness in hospitalized patients. In some patients, this yeast can enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body, causing serious invasive infections. This yeast often does not respond to commonly used antifungal drugs, making infections difficult to treat. Patients who have been hospitalized in a healthcare facility a long time, have a central venous catheter, or other lines or tubes entering their body, or have previously received antibiotics or antifungal medications, appear to be at highest risk of infection with this yeast.
What types of infections can C. auris cause?
C. auris has caused bloodstream infections, wound infections, and ear infections. It also has been isolated from respiratory and urine specimens, but it is unclear if it causes infections in the lung or bladder.
How is C. auris infection diagnosed?
Like other Candida infections, C. auris infections are usually diagnosed by culture of blood or other body fluids. However, C. auris is harder to identify from cultures than other, more common types of Candida. For example, it can be confused with other types of yeasts, particularly Candida haemulonii. Special laboratory tests are needed to identify C. auris. For more information, please see the Recommendations for Laboratorians and Health Professionals.
Who is at risk for infection from C. auris?
People who have recently spent time in nursing homes and have lines and tubes that go into their body (such as breathing tubes, feeding tubes and central venous catheters), seem to be at highest risk for C. auris infection. Limited data suggest that the risk factors for Candida auris infections are generally similar to risk factors for other types of Candida infections. These risk factors include recent surgery, diabetes, broad-spectrum antibiotic and antifungal use. Infections have been found in patients of all ages, from preterm infants to the elderly. Further study is needed to learn more about risk factors for C. auris infection.
When was C. auris first reported?
C. auris was first identified in 2009 in Japan. Retrospective review of Candida strain collections found that the earliest known strain of C. auris dates to 1996 in South Korea. CDC considers C. auris an emerging pathogen because increasing numbers of infections have been identified in multiple countries since it was recognized.
How did C. auris get its name?
Auris is the Latin word for ear. Despite its name, C. auris can also affect many other regions of the body and can cause invasive infections, including bloodstream infections and wound infections.
Where have C. auris infections occurred globally?
C. auris infections have been reported from over 30 countries, including the United States. Because identification of C. auris requires specialized laboratory methods, infections likely have occurred in other countries but have not been identified or reported. Click here for a map of countries with reported cases.
How did C. auris infection spread globally?
CDC conducted whole genome sequencing of C. auris specimens from countries in the regions of eastern Asia, southern Asia, southern Africa, and South America. Whole genome sequencing produces detailed DNA fingerprints of organisms. CDC found that isolates within each region are quite similar to one another, but are relatively different across regions. These differences suggest that C. auris has emerged independently in multiple regions at roughly the same time.
Would someone be likely to get a C. auris infection if they travel to any of these countries?
It is unlikely that routine travel to countries with documented C. auris infections would increase the chance of someone getting sick from C. auris. Infections have occurred primarily in patients who were already in the hospital for other reasons. People who travel to these countries to seek medical care or who are hospitalized there for a long time may have an increased risk for C. auris infection. 
Are C. auris infections treatable?
Most C. auris infections are treatable with a class of antifungal drugs called echinocandins. However, some C. auris infections have been resistant to all three main classes of antifungal medications, making them more difficult to treat. In this situation, multiple classes of antifungals at high doses may be required to treat the infection. Treatment decisions should be made in consultation with a healthcare provider experienced in treating patients with fungal infections
Can a person die from infection with C. auris?
Yes. Invasive infections with any Candida species can be fatal. We don’t know if patients with invasive C. auris infection are more likely to die than patients with other invasive Candida infections. Based on information from a limited number of patients, 30–60% of people with C. auris infections have died. However, many of these people had other serious illnesses that also increased their risk of death.
How does C. auris spread?
C. auris can spread in healthcare settings through contact with contaminated environmental surfaces or equipment, or from person to person. More work is needed to further understand how it spreads.
what is Clostridioides difficile?
Clostridioides difficile [klos–TRID–e–OY-dees dif–uh–SEEL] (C. diff ) is a germ (bacteria) that causes life-threatening diarrhea. It is usually a side-effect of taking antibiotics.
who can get clostridioides difficile?
People 65 and older who take antibiotics and receive medical care,People staying in hospitals and nursing homes for a long period of time orPeople with weakened immune systems or previous infection with C. diff
symptoms of clostridioides difficile?
diarrhea: loose, watery stools (poop) for several days - fever , stomach tenderness , loss of appetite and nausea
what is C. gattii cryptococcosis?
C. gattii cryptococcosis is a rare infection caused by Cryptococcus gattii, a fungus that lives in soil and in association with certain trees.1,2 C. gattii primarily lives in tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world, particularly Australia and Papua New Guinea, but it has also been found in parts of Africa, Asia, Europe, Mexico, and South America.1,2 Since 1999, C. gattii has been recognized as causing infections in humans and animals on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, and C. gattii infections were first recognized the United States Pacific Northwest (Oregon and Washington) in 2004.3–6 A small number of people have also gotten C. gattii infections in other areas of the US, particularly in the Southeast, without a history of travel to Oregon or Washington.
symptoms of C. gattii?
C. gattii usually infects the lungs or the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord), but it can also affect other parts of the body. The symptoms of the infection depend on the parts of the body that are affected
How soon do the symptoms of C. gattii infection appear?
The incubation period of C.gattii is not well-established. A few studies have shown that symptoms of C. gattii infection can appear between two and thirteen months after breathing in the fungus, with an average of approximately six to seven months.4,5 However, for some people it may take even longer for symptoms to show up after breathing in the fungus; for example, one person didn’t develop symptoms until three years after traveling to an area where the fungus is known to live
What is Campylobacter infection?
Campylobacter infection, or campylobacteriosis, is caused by Campylobacter bacteria. It is the most common bacterial cause of diarrheal illness in the United States. Data from the Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet) indicate that about 20 cases are diagnosed each year for every 100,000 people. The Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance Network (FoodNet) indicates that about 20 cases are diagnosed each year for every 100,000 people. Many more cases go undiagnosed or unreported. CDC estimates Campylobacter infection affects 1.5 million U.S. residents every year. Most cases are not part of recognized outbreaks, and more cases occur in summer than in winter.
What are the symptoms of Campylobacter infection?
People with Campylobacter infection usually have diarrhea (often bloody), fever, and stomach cramps. Nausea and vomiting may accompany the diarrhea.  Symptoms usually start two to five days after infection and last about one week. Some people experience complications, such as irritable bowel syndrome, temporary paralysis, and arthritis. In people with weakened immune systems, such as those with a blood disorder, with AIDS, or receiving chemotherapy, Campylobacter occasionally spreads to the bloodstream and causes a life-threatening infection.
How does food and water get contaminated with Campylobacter?
Campylobacter can contaminate food and water in several ways.Many chickens, turkeys, cows, and other animals that show no signs of illness carry Campylobacter. Campylobacter can be carried in the intestines, liver, and other organs of animals and can be transferred to other edible parts when an animal is slaughtered. In 2015, National Antimicrobial Resistance Monitoring System (NARMS) testing found Campylobacter on 24% of raw chicken bought from retailers.
How do people get infected with Campylobacter bacteria?
It takes very few Campylobacter bacteria to make someone sick. A single drop of juice from raw chicken can contain enough bacteria to infect someone.Most Campylobacter infections are probably acquired by eating raw or undercooked poultry or eating something that touched it. Campylobacter are also transmitted by other foods, including seafood, meat, and produce; by contact with animals; and by drinking untreated water.
How is Campylobacter infection diagnosed and treated?
Campylobacter infection is diagnosed when a laboratory test detects Campylobacter bacteria in stool (poop), body tissue, or fluids. The test could be a culture that isolates the bacteria or a rapid diagnostic test that detects genetic material of the bacteria.Most people recover from Campylobacter infection without antibiotic treatment. Patients should drink extra fluids as long as diarrhea lasts.
Is Campylobacter infection serious?
Most people with a Campylobacter infection recover completely within a week, although some shed (get rid of) Campylobacter bacteria in their stool for weeks after recovery. Campylobacter infection rarely results in long-term health problems. Some studies have estimated that 5–20% of people with Campylobacter infection develop irritable bowel syndrome for a limited time and 1–5% develop arthritis.
What are public health agencies doing to control Campylobacter and prevent infections?
State health departments report human Campylobacter infections to CDC. Through the surveillance systems listed below, CDC monitors cases, tracks antibiotic resistance, estimates the total number of people infected each year, identifies prevention measures to meet food safety goals, and provides data and analyses that inform food safety action and policy.
what is cancer?
Cancer can start any place in the body. It starts when cells grow out of control and crowd out normal cells. This makes it hard for the body to work the way it should.Cancer can be treated very well for many people. In fact, more people than ever before lead full lives after cancer treatment.(try searching about specific cancer - skin cancer , lung cancer etc
what is Colorectal cancer?
Colorectal cancer is cancer that occurs in the colon or rectum. Sometimes it is called colon cancer, for short. As the drawing shows, the colon is the large intestine or large bowel. The rectum is the passageway that connects the colon to the anus.
What Can I Do to Reduce My Risk of Colorectal Cancer?
Almost all colorectal cancers begin as precancerous polyps (abnormal growths) in the colon or rectum. Such polyps can be present in the colon for years before invasive cancer develops. They may not cause any symptoms, especially early on.
What Are the Symptoms of Colorectal Cancer?
1) Blood in or on your stool (bowel movement). 2) Stomach pain, aches, or cramps that don’t go away.3) Losing weight and you don’t know why.
What Is Gynecologic Cancer?
Gynecologic cancer is any cancer that starts in a woman’s reproductive organs. There are five main types of gynecologic cancer.
symptoms of Gynecologic Cancer?
If you have vaginal bleeding that is unusual for you, talk to a doctor right away. Any vaginal bleeding after menopause needs to be reported to your doctor. If you have not yet gone through menopause but notice that your periods are heavier, last longer than normal for you, or if you’re having unusual bleeding between periods, talk to your doctor.
Treatment of Gynecologic cancer?
Gynecologic cancers are treated in several ways. It depends on the kind of cancer and how far it has spread. Treatments include surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. Women with a gynecologic cancer often get more than one kind of treatment.Surgery: Doctors remove cancer tissue in an operation.Chemotherapy: Using special medicines to shrink or kill the cancer. The drugs can be pills you take or medicines given in your veins, or sometimes both.Radiation: Using high-energy rays (similar to X-rays) to kill the cancer.
What Can I Do to Reduce My Risk?
It is important to recognize the warning signs of gynecologic cancer and learn if there are things you can do to lower your risk.
what is lung cancer?
Cancer is a disease in which cells in the body grow out of control. When cancer starts in the lungs, it is called lung cancer.Lung cancer begins in the lungs and may spread to lymph nodes or other organs in the body, such as the brain. Cancer from other organs also may spread to the lungs. When cancer cells spread from one organ to another, they are called metastases.
Symptoms of Lung cancer?
Lung cancer symptoms may include-Coughing that gets worse or doesn’t go away, Chest pain ,Shortness of breath ,Wheezing ,Coughing up blood ,Feeling very tired all the time or Weight loss with no known cause.
Lowering the risk of Lung cancer?
ou can help lower your risk of lung cancer in the following ways-Don’t smoke. Cigarette smoking causes about 80% to 90% of lung cancer deaths in the United States. The most important thing you can do to prevent lung cancer is to not start smoking, or to quit if you smoke.Avoid secondhand smoke. Smoke from other people’s cigarettes, cigars, or pipes is called secondhand smoke. Make your home and car smoke-free.Get your home tested for radon. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agencyexternal icon recommends that all homes be tested for radon.Be careful at work. Health and safety guidelines in the workplace can help workers avoid carcinogens-things that can cause cancer.
Who Should Be Screened for Lung cancer?
Have a history of heavy smoking, and Smoke now or have quit within the past 15 years, and Are between 55 and 80 years old.
What Is Prostate Cancer?
Cancer is a disease in which cells in the body grow out of control. When cancer starts in the prostate, it is called prostate cancer. Not including skin cancer, prostate cancer is the most common cancer in American men.
Who Is at Risk for Prostate Cancer?
All men are at risk for prostate cancer. Out of every 100 American men, about 13 will get prostate cancer during their lifetime, and about 2 to 3 men will die from prostate cancer.
What Are the Symptoms of Prostate Cancer?
Some symptoms of prostate cancer are- Difficulty starting urination, Weak or interrupted flow of urine ,Frequent urination, especially at night ,Difficulty emptying the bladder completely , Pain or burning during urination , Blood in the urine or semen , Pain in the back, hips, or pelvis that doesn’t go away and Painful ejaculation.
How Is Prostate Cancer Diagnosed?
A biopsy is a procedure that can be used to diagnose prostate cancer. A biopsy is when a small piece of tissue is removed from the prostate and looked at under a microscope to see if there are cancer cells.
How Is Prostate Cancer Treated?
Different types of treatment are available for prostate cancer. You and your doctor will decide which treatment is right for you. Some common treatments are-Active surveillance. Closely monitoring the prostate cancer by performing prostate specific antigen (PSA) and digital rectal exam (DRE) tests and prostate biopsies regularly, and treating the cancer only if it grows or causes symptoms.Surgery. A prostatectomy is an operation where doctors remove the prostate. Radical prostatectomy removes the prostate as well as the surrounding tissue.Radiation therapy. Using high-energy rays (similar to X-rays) to kill the cancer. There are two types of radiation therapy-External radiation therapy. A machine outside the body directs radiation at the cancer cells.Internal radiation therapy (brachytherapy). Radioactive seeds or pellets are surgically placed into or near the cancer to destroy the cancer cells.
what is skin cancer?
Skin cancer is the most common form of cancer in the United States. The two most common types of skin cancer-basal cell and squamous cell carcinomas-are highly curable, but can be disfiguring and costly to treat. Melanoma, the third most common skin cancer, is more dangerous and causes the most deaths. The majority of cases of these three types of skin cancer are caused by overexposure to ultraviolet (UV) light.
who has a risk of having a skin cancer?
Anyone can get skin cancer, but people with certain characteristics are at greater risk-A lighter natural skin color, Skin that burns, freckles, reddens easily, or becomes painful in the sun , Blue or green eyes , Blond or red hair , Certain types and a large number of moles , A family history of skin cancer, A personal history of skin cancer or Older age.
symptoms of skin cancer?
A change in your skin is the most common sign of skin cancer. This could be a new growth, a sore that doesn’t heal, or a change in a mole.external icon Not all skin cancers look the same.
What Can I Do to Reduce My Risk of Skin Cancer?
Protection from ultraviolet (UV) radiation is important all year, not just during the summer or at the beach. UV rays from the sun can reach you on cloudy and hazy days, not just on bright and sunny days. UV rays also reflect off of surfaces like water, cement, sand, and snow. Indoor tanning (using a tanning bed, booth, or sunlamp to get tan) exposes users to UV radiation.
What types of infections can C. auris cause?
C. auris has caused bloodstream infections, wound infections, and ear infections. It also has been isolated from respiratory and urine specimens, but it is unclear if it causes infections in the lung or bladder.
How is C. auris infection diagnosed?
Like other Candida infections, C. auris infections are usually diagnosed by culture of blood or other body fluids. However, C. auris is harder to identify from cultures than other, more common types of Candida. For example, it can be confused with other types of yeasts, particularly Candida haemulonii. Special laboratory tests are needed to identify C. auris. For more information, please see the Recommendations for Laboratorians and Health Professionals.
Who is at risk for infection from C. auris?
People who have recently spent time in nursing homes and have lines and tubes that go into their body (such as breathing tubes, feeding tubes and central venous catheters), seem to be at highest risk for C. auris infection. Limited data suggest that the risk factors for Candida auris infections are generally similar to risk factors for other types of Candida infections. These risk factors include recent surgery, diabetes, broad-spectrum antibiotic and antifungal use. Infections have been found in patients of all ages, from preterm infants to the elderly. Further study is needed to learn more about risk factors for C. auris infection.
When was C. auris first reported?
C. auris was first identified in 2009 in Japan. Retrospective review of Candida strain collections found that the earliest known strain of C. auris dates to 1996 in South Korea. CDC considers C. auris an emerging pathogen because increasing numbers of infections have been identified in multiple countries since it was recognized.
How did C. auris get its name?
Auris is the Latin word for ear. Despite its name, C. auris can also affect many other regions of the body and can cause invasive infections, including bloodstream infections and wound infections.
Where have C. auris infections occurred globally?
C. auris infections have been reported from over 30 countries, including the United States. Because identification of C. auris requires specialized laboratory methods, infections likely have occurred in other countries but have not been identified or reported. Click here for a map of countries with reported cases.
How did C. auris infection spread globally?
CDC conducted whole genome sequencing of C. auris specimens from countries in the regions of eastern Asia, southern Asia, southern Africa, and South America. Whole genome sequencing produces detailed DNA fingerprints of organisms. CDC found that isolates within each region are quite similar to one another, but are relatively different across regions. These differences suggest that C. auris has emerged independently in multiple regions at roughly the same time.
Would someone be likely to get a C. auris infection if they travel to any of these countries?
It is unlikely that routine travel to countries with documented C. auris infections would increase the chance of someone getting sick from C. auris. Infections have occurred primarily in patients who were already in the hospital for other reasons. People who travel to these countries to seek medical care or who are hospitalized there for a long time may have an increased risk for C. auris infection. 
Have C. auris infections occurred in the United States?
Cases of C. auris infections have been reported in the United States. As laboratories continue to look for this fungus, it is likely that more cases will be reported. Click here for a map of cases in the United States.
What should someone do if they suspect they have a C. auris infection?
CDC recommends that anyone who believes they have any fungal infection or healthcare-associated infection see a healthcare provider.
Are C. auris infections treatable?
Most C. auris infections are treatable with a class of antifungal drugs called echinocandins. However, some C. auris infections have been resistant to all three main classes of antifungal medications, making them more difficult to treat. In this situation, multiple classes of antifungals at high doses may be required to treat the infection. Treatment decisions should be made in consultation with a healthcare provider experienced in treating patients with fungal infections.
Can a person die from infection with C. auris?
Yes. Invasive infections with any Candida species can be fatal. We don’t know if patients with invasive C. auris infection are more likely to die than patients with other invasive Candida infections. Based on information from a limited number of patients, 30–60% of people with C. auris infections have died. However, many of these people had other serious illnesses that also increased their risk of death.
How does C. auris spread?
C. auris can spread in healthcare settings through contact with contaminated environmental surfaces or equipment, or from person to person. More work is needed to further understand how it spreads.
How can the spread of C. auris be prevented?
Please see the Recommendations for Laboratorians and Health Professionals.
What is CDC doing to address C. auris?
CDC is providing guidance for clinicians and infection control personnel. For more information, please see the Recommendations for Laboratorians and Health Professionals. CDC also is working with state and local health agencies, healthcare facilities, and clinical microbiology laboratories to ensure that laboratories are using proper methods to detect C. auris and know the limitations of certain tests for detecting C. auris.
what is C. auris?
Healthcare facilities in several countries have reported that a type of yeast called Candida auris has been causing severe illness in hospitalized patients. In some patients, this yeast can enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body, causing serious invasive infections. This yeast often does not respond to commonly used antifungal drugs, making infections difficult to treat. Patients who have been hospitalized in a healthcare facility a long time, have a central venous catheter, or other lines or tubes entering their body, or have previously received antibiotics or antifungal medications, appear to be at highest risk of infection with this yeast.
What is capillariasis?
Capillariasis is a parasitic infection cause by two species of nematodes, Capillaria hepatica, which causes hepatic capillariasis, and Capillaria philippinensis, which causes intestinal capillariasis. There are medications and treatment options available to cure both forms of capillariasis, but, without treatment, capillariasis can lead to death.
How does one become infected?
C. hepatica is often found in the liver of animals such as small rodents, monkeys, and prairie dogs and can cause cirrhosis in these animal hosts. When these animals are eaten by larger carnivores, capillarid eggs are ingested and passed through the fecal matter of the carnivore. When this fecal matter is deposited in the soil, these eggs become infective in about 30 days and can infect other animals, including humans. Once accidentally ingested by a human, the eggs migrate to the liver and mature to adult worms. Another route of transmission is through the decomposition of infected animals via eggs in the liver being released into the soil.
Where is C. hepatica found?
Infection with C. hepatica is rare but has been reported worldwide. Infection with C. philippinensis is frequently found in the Philippines and Thailand. Some cases have been found in other Asian countries, the Middle East, and Colombia.
How is C. hepatica diagnosed?
C. hepatica can be diagnosed by performing a liver biopsy, needle biopsy, or after death at autopsy. Analyzing stool samples for C. hepatica cannot be used to diagnose infection. C. philippinensis can be diagnosed by taking a biopsy of the tissue of the small intestine or by analyzing stool samples.
Can C. hepatica be transmitted human to human?
C. hepatica can be transmitted human to human when eggs are deposited through human fecal matter into the soil. The eggs then become infective in the soil, and humans ingest infective soil directly by eating soil (pica) or indirectly through contaminated food or water.
What are the signs and symptoms of C. hepatica?
When a human is infected with only one C. hepatica worm, there are often no signs or symptoms. With multiple worms and female worms that lay eggs continually, the clinical manifestations of C. hepatica include hepatitis, anemia, fever, hypereosinophilia, and even death.
How can I prevent capillariasis?
In order to prevent both types of capillariasis, proper hygiene and disposal of fecal matter is important.Specific latrines should be used that are both out of reach from animals and will not let fecal matter seep into the water or around the food supply.Washing your hands with soap and warm water after touching or working with soil and before handling food.Teach children the importance of washing hands to prevent infection.Wash fruits and vegetables before eating them.Do not eat raw or undercooked fish.
what is treatment of C. hepatica?
The medications used to treat C. hepatica include thiabendazole and albendazole. However, C. hepatica is a rare infection and clinical experience is limited. Steroids have been used to help control the inflammation of the liver.
what is klebsiella?
Klebsiella is a type of Gram-negative bacteria that can cause different types of healthcare-associated infections, including pneumonia, bloodstream infections, wound or surgical site infections, and meningitis. Increasingly, Klebsiella bacteria have developed antimicrobial resistance, most recently to the class of antibiotics known as carbapenems. 
How Klebsiella bacteria are spread?
To get a Klebsiella infection, a person must be exposed to the bacteria. For example, Klebsiella must enter the respiratory (breathing) tract to cause pneumoniae, or the blood to cause a bloodstream infection.
Treating Klebsiella infections?
Klebsiella infections that are not drug-resistant can be treated with antibiotics. Infections caused by KPC-producing bacteria can be difficult to treat because fewer antibiotics are effective against them. In such cases, a microbiology laboratory must run tests to determine which antibiotics will treat the infection.
What is the most common kind of tapeworm dogs and cats get?
The most common tapeworm of dogs and cats in the United States is called Dipylidium caninum. Infection is common and found throughout the world.
How did my pet get the Dipylidium tapeworm?
By swallowing a flea infected with a tapeworm larvae. A dog or cat may swallow a flea while self-grooming. Once the flea is digested by the dog or cat, the larval tapeworm is able to develop into an adult tapeworm.
How would I know if my pet has a tapeworm infection?
Although cats and dogs are rarely ill as a result of a Dipylidium tapeworm infection, the proglottids can sometimes be seen crawling near the anus or on the surface of a fresh bowel movement. Proglottids contain tapeworm eggs; these eggs are released into the environment when the proglottid dries out. The dried proglottids are small (about 2 mm), hard and yellowish in color and can sometimes be seen stuck to the fur around the pet’s anus.
What kind of problems do tapeworms cause for the dog?
Tapeworms are not usually harmful to your pet. Weight loss may occur if your pet is heavily infected. Sometimes, an infected dog will "scoot" or drag its anus across the ground or carpet because the segments are irritating to the skin in this area.
How is tapeworm infection diagnosed in my pet?
Tapeworm infection is usually diagnosed when the moving segments are seen crawling around the anus or in a bowel movement. Dipylidium tapeworm eggs are rarely released into the feces and are therefore not usually detected by routine fecal exams performed by your veterinarian. Because of this, veterinarians depend on you to notify them of possible tapeworm infection in your pet.
Can I get a tapeworm infection from my pet?
Yes; however, the risk of infection with this tapeworm in humans is very low. For a person to become infected with Dipylidium, he or she must accidentally swallow an infected flea. Most reported cases involve children. The most effective way to prevent infections in pets and humans is through flea control. A child who is infected will usually pass proglottids (or what appears as rice) in a bowel movement or find them stuck to the skin around the anal area.
How is tapeworm infection treated?
Treatment for both animals and humans is simple and very effective. A prescription drug called praziquantel is given, either orally or by injection (pets only). The medication causes the tapeworm to dissolve within the intestine. Since the worm is usually digested before it passes, it may not be visible in your dog’s stool. The drugs are generally well-tolerated.
What should I do if I think my child is infected with tapeworms?
See your health care provider for diagnosis and treatment.
How can tapeworm infection be prevented?
To reduce the likelihood of infection you should:Control fleas on your pet, and in their indoor and outdoor environments.Have your veterinarian treat your dogs and cats promptly if they have tapeworms.Clean up after your pet, especially in playgrounds and public parks. Bury the feces, or place it in a plastic bag and dispose of it in the trash.Do not allow children to play in areas that are soiled with pet or other animal feces.Teach children to always wash their hands after playing with dogs and cats, and after playing outdoors.
what is cerabral palsy?
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of disorders that affect a person’s ability to move and maintain balance and posture. CP is the most common motor disability in childhood. CDC estimates that an average of 1 in 345 children in the U.S. have CP.
diagnosing CP?
Diagnosing cerebral palsy (CP) at an early age is important to the well-being of children and their families. Diagnosing CP can take several steps: Developmental Monitoring, Developmental Screening or Developmental and Medical Evaluations
what is chickenpox?
Chickenpox is a highly contagious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV). It causes an itchy, blister-like rash. The rash appears first on the chest, back, and face, and then spreads over the entire body.
vaccination of chickenpox?
Chickenpox is a highly contagious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV). It can cause an itchy, blister-like rash.Two doses of the chickenpox vaccine is more than 90% effective at preventing chickenpox. When you get vaccinated, you protect yourself and others in your family and community. This protection is especially important for people who cannot get vaccinated, such as those with weakened immune systems, or pregnant women.
what is Chikungunya?
Chikungunya virus is spread to people by the bite of an infected mosquito. The most common symptoms of infection are fever and joint pain. Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash. 
Symptoms of Chikungunya?
Most people infected with chikungunya virus will develop some symptoms.Symptoms usually begin 3–7 days after being bitten by an infected mosquito.
The most common symptoms are fever and joint pain.Other symptoms may include headache, muscle pain, joint swelling, or rash.Chikungunya disease does not often result in death, but the symptoms can be severe and disabling.Most patients feel better within a week. In some people, the joint pain may persist for months.People at risk for more severe disease include newborns infected around the time of birth, older adults, and people with medical conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or heart disease. Once a person has been infected, he or she is likely to be protected from future infections.
Diagnosis of Chikungunya?
The symptoms of chikungunya are similar to those of dengue and Zika, diseases spread by the same mosquitoes that transmit chikungunya. See your healthcare provider if you develop the symptoms described above and have visited an area where chikungunya is found. If you have recently traveled, tell your healthcare provider when and where you traveled. Your healthcare provider may order blood tests to look for chikungunya or other similar viruses like dengue and Zika.
Treatment of Chikungunya?
There is no vaccine to prevent or medicine to treat chikungunya virus. Treat the symptoms: Get plenty of rest. Drink fluids to prevent dehydration.
Take medicine such as acetaminophen (Tylenol®) or paracetamol to reduce fever and pain. Do not take aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS until dengue can be ruled out to reduce the risk of bleeding). If you are taking medicine for another medical condition, talk to your healthcare provider before taking additional medication. If you have chikungunya, prevent mosquito bites for the first week of your illness. During the first week of infection, chikungunya virus can be found in the blood and passed from an infected person to a mosquito through mosquito bites. An infected mosquito can then spread the virus to other people.
spread of C. pneumoniae?
People spread C. pneumoniae by coughing or sneezing, which creates small respiratory droplets that contain the bacteria. Other people then breathe in the bacteria. People can also get sick if they touch something with droplets from a sick person on it and then touch their mouth or nose.
symptoms of C. pneumoniae?
Runny or stuffy nose , Fatigue (feeling tired) , Low-grade fever , Hoarseness or loss of voice , Sore throat , Slowly worsening cough that can last for weeks or months , Headache
what is psittaci?
Chlamydia psittaci is a type of bacteria that often infects birds. Less commonly, these bacteria can infect people and cause a disease called psittacosis. Psittacosis can cause mild illness or pneumonia (lung infection). To help prevent this illness, follow good precautions when handling and cleaning birds and cages.
what is cholera?
Cholera is an acute, diarrheal illness caused by infection of the intestine with the toxigenic bacterium Vibrio cholerae serogroup O1 or O139. An estimated 2.9 million cases and 95,000 deaths occur each year around the world. The infection is often mild or without symptoms, but can sometimes be severe. Approximately one in 10 (10%) infected persons will have severe disease characterized by profuse watery diarrhea, vomiting, and leg cramps. In these people, rapid loss of body fluids leads to dehydration and shock. Without treatment, death can occur within hours.
where is cholera found?
The cholera bacterium is usually found in water or food sources that have been contaminated by feces (poop) from a person infected with cholera. Cholera is most likely to be found and spread in places with inadequate water treatment, poor sanitation, and inadequate hygiene.
how a person gets cholera?
A person can get cholera by drinking water or eating food contaminated with the cholera bacterium. In an epidemic, the source of the contamination is usually the feces of an infected person that contaminates water and/or food. The disease can spread rapidly in areas with inadequate treatment of sewage and drinking water. The disease is not likely to spread directly from one person to another; therefore, casual contact with an infected person is not a risk for becoming ill.
Symptoms of cholera?
Cholera infection is often mild or without symptoms, but can sometimes be severe. Approximately one in ten (10%) infected persons will have severe disease characterized by profuse watery diarrhea, vomiting, and leg cramps. In these people, rapid loss of body fluids leads to dehydration and shock. Without treatment, death can occur within hours.
how is cholera diagnosed?
To test for cholera, doctors must take a stool sample or a rectal swab and send it to a laboratory to look for the cholera bacterium.
Treatment of Cholera?
Cholera can be simply and successfully treated by immediate replacement of the fluid and salts lost through diarrhea. Patients can be treated with oral rehydration solution (ORS), a prepackaged mixture of sugar and salts to be mixed with 1 liter of water and drunk in large amounts. This solution is used throughout the world to treat diarrhea. Severe cases also require intravenous fluid replacement. With prompt appropriate rehydration, fewer than 1% of cholera patients die.
What is COPD?
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, refers to a group of diseases that cause airflow blockage and breathing-related problems. It includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis. COPD makes breathing difficult for the 16 million Americans who have this disease. Millions more people suffer from COPD, but have not been diagnosed and are not being treated. Although there is no cure for COPD, it can be treated.
What are the Potential Effects of TBI?
The severity of a traumatic brain injury (TBI) may range from "mild" (i.e., a brief change in mental status or consciousness) to "severe" (i.e., an extended period of unconsciousness or amnesia after the injury).
About Ciguatera?
Ciguatera fish poisoning (or ciguatera) is an illness caused by eating fish that contain toxins produced by a marine microalgae called Gambierdiscus toxicus. People who have ciguatera may experience nausea, vomiting, and neurologic symptoms such as tingling fingers or toes. They also may find that cold things feel hot and hot things feel cold. Ciguatera has no cure. Symptoms usually go away in days or weeks but can last for years. People who have ciguatera can be treated for their symptoms.
what is Clonorchis?
Clonorchis is a liver fluke parasite (trematode or worm) that can infect the liver, gallbladder, and bile duct. Found across parts of Asia, it is also known as the Chinese or oriental liver fluke.
symptoms of clonorchis?
Most infected persons have no symptoms. In mild cases, symptoms may include indigestion, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or constipation. Most signs and symptoms are related to inflammation and intermittent obstruction  of the bile ducts. In severe cases, abdominal pain, nausea, and diarrhea can occur.
Prevention of clonochis?
Clonorchis infection can be prevented by avoiding raw or undercooked freshwater fish. Lightly salted, smoked, or pickled fish can contain infectious parasites. Clonorchis infection does not result from drinking river water or other non-potable water.
What is C. perfringens?
Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) is a spore-forming gram-positive bacterium that is found in many environmental sources as well as in the intestines of humans and animals. C. perfringens is commonly found on raw meat and poultry. It prefers to grow in conditions with very little or no oxygen, and under ideal conditions can multiply very rapidly.  Some strains of C. perfringens produce a toxin in the intestine that causes illness.
What are common food sources of C. perfringens?
Beef, poultry, gravies, and dried or pre-cooked foods are common sources of C. perfringens infections. C. perfringens infection often occurs when foods are prepared in large quantities and kept warm for a long time before serving. Outbreaks often happen in institutions, such as hospitals, school cafeterias, prisons, and nursing homes, or at events with catered food.
What are the symptoms of C. perfringens food poisoning?
People infected with C. perfringens develop diarrhea and abdominal cramps within 6 to 24 hours (typically 8 to 12 hours). The illness usually begins suddenly and lasts for less than 24 hours.  People infected with C. perfringens usually do not have fever or vomiting. The illness is not passed from one person to another.
Who is at risk of C. perfringens food poisoning?
Everyone is susceptible to food poisoning from C. perfringens. The very young and elderly are most at risk of C. perfringens infection and can experience more severe symptoms that  may last for 1 to 2 weeks. Complications, including dehydration, may occur in severe cases.
How is C. perfringens diagnosed and treated?
Laboratories diagnose C. perfringens food poisoning by detecting a type of bacterial toxin in feces or by tests to determine the number of bacteria in the feces. A count of at least 106 C. perfringens spores per gram of stool within 48 hours of when illness began is required to diagnose infection. Oral rehydration or, in severe cases, intravenous fluids and electrolyte replacement can be used to prevent or treat dehydration. Antibiotics are not recommended.
What causes C. perfringens food poisoning?
Although C. perfringens may live normally in the human intestine, illness is caused by eating food contaminated with large numbers of C. perfringens bacteria that produce enough toxin in the intestines to cause illness.C. perfringens can survive high temperatures. During cooling and holding of food at temperatures from 54°F–140°F (12°C–60°C), the bacteria grows. It can grow very rapidly between 109°F–117°F (43°C–47°C). If the food is served without reheating to kill the bacteria, live bacteria may be eaten. The bacteria produce a toxin inside the intestine that causes illness.
what is tetanus?
Tetanus is different from other vaccine-preventable diseases because it does not spread from person to person. The bacteria are usually found in soil, dust, and manure and enter the body through breaks in the skin - usually cuts or puncture wounds caused by contaminated objects.
causes of tetanus?
Tetanus is an infection caused by a bacterium called Clostridium tetani. Spores of tetanus bacteria are everywhere in the environment, including soil, dust, and manure. The spores develop into bacteria when they enter the body.
symptoms of tetanus?
People often call tetanus "lockjaw" because one of the most common signs of this infection is tightening of the jaw muscles. Tetanus infection can lead to serious health problems, including being unable to open the mouth and having trouble swallowing and breathing.
Diagnosis of tetanus?
Doctors can diagnose tetanus by examining the patient and looking for certain signs and symptoms. There are no hospital lab tests that can confirm tetanus.
Treatment of Tetanus?
Tetanus is a medical emergency requiring: Care in the hospital , Immediate treatment with medicine called human tetanus immune globulin (TIG) , Aggressive wound care , Drugs to control muscle spasms , Antibiotics or Tetanus vaccination
What is Colorado tick fever?
Colorado tick fever (CTF) is a rare disease that is caused by the CTF virus. CTF virus is spread to people through bites of infected ticks. The most common symptoms of CTF are fever, chills, headache, body aches, and feeling tired.
How do people get infected with Colorado tick fever virus?
CTF virus is transmitted by the bite of an infected Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni). The virus is not spread from person to person, except in rare instances by blood transfusion.
Where and when have most cases of Colorado tick fever occurred?
CTF occurs in people who live in or visit areas of the western United States and western Canada that are 4,000–10,000 feet above sea level. Most cases of CTF occur during spring or summer months when ticks are most active.
Who is at risk for infection with Colorado tick fever virus?
Anyone bitten by a tick in an area where the virus is circulating can get infected with CTF virus. People who work outdoors or participate in outdoor activities are most likely to be exposed to ticks.
How soon do people get sick after getting bitten by an infected tick?
The incubation period (time from tick bite to onset of illness) ranges from 1 to 14 days.
What are the symptoms of Colorado tick fever?
The most common symptoms are fever, chills, headache, body aches, and feeling tired. Some patients will have sore throat, vomiting, abdominal pain, skin rash, or stiff neck. About half of all people infected with CTF virus have several days of fever followed by several days of improvement, then a second short period of fever and illness.
How is Colorado tick fever diagnosed?
Preliminary diagnosis is based on a patient’s symptoms and history of probable exposure to a tick in an area where CTF occurs. Laboratory tests typically detect CTF virus genetic material (RNA) or antibodies against the virus in blood.
What is the treatment for Colorado tick fever?
There is no specific medication to treat CTF. Severe illnesses are treated by supportive care which may include medications to reduce pain and fever, hospitalization, and intravenous fluids.
what is CDC?
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) are conditions that are present at birth and can affect the structure of a baby’s heart and the way it works. They are the most common type of birth defect. As medical care and treatment have advanced, infants with congenital heart defects are living longer and healthier lives. Many now are living into adulthood.
what is conjuctivits?
People often call conjunctivitis "pink eye" because it can cause the white of the eye to take on a pink or red color. Symptoms of pink eye can vary but typically include redness or swelling of the white of the eye.
causes of conjuctivitis?
viruses , bacteria or allergens
Symptoms of conjuctivitis?
Pink or red color in the white of the eye(s) , Swelling of the conjunctiva (the thin layer that lines the white part of the eye and the inside of the eyelid) and/or eyelids , Increased tear production , Feeling like a foreign body is in the eye(s) or an urge to rub the eye(s) , Itching, irritation, and/or burning , Discharge (pus or mucus) , Crusting of eyelids or lashes, especially in the morning , Contact lenses that feel uncomfortable and/or do not stay in place on the eye
What is COPD?
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or COPD, refers to a group of diseases that cause airflow blockage and breathing-related problems. It includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis. COPD makes breathing difficult for the 16 million Americans who have this disease. Millions more people suffer from COPD, but have not been diagnosed and are not being treated. Although there is no cure for COPD, it can be treated.
What is Diphyllobothrium latum?
Diphyllobothrium latum and related species (the fish or broad tapeworm), the largest tapeworms that can infect people, can grow up to 30 feet long. Several other Diphyllobothrium species infect humans, but less frequently.
What are the signs and symptoms of Diphyllobothrium infection?
Most infections are asymptomatic. However symptoms can include abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss. Vitamin B12 deficiency leading to pernicious anemia may occur. Complications include intestinal obstruction and gall bladder disease caused by migration of proglottids.
How is infection with Diphyllobothrium diagnosed?
Diagnosis is made by identification of eggs or segments of the tapeworm in a stool sample with a microscope. Eggs are usually numerous, but more than one stool sample may be needed to find them.
Is medication available to treat infection with Diphyllobothrium infection?
Yes, safe and effective medications are available to treat Diphyllobothrium infection (praziquantel or niclosamide are used most often).
How did I get infected with Diphyllobothrium?
You got infected by eating raw or undercooked fish. Examples of fish include salmon, trout, perch, walleyed pike, and other species - usually freshwater fish. Some fish such as salmon live in both fresh and salt water and can harbor Diphyllobothrium larvae. Lightly salted, smoked, or pickled fish also may contain infectious organisms.
Who is at greatest risk of infection?
Diphyllobothrium infection generally occurs in the Northern Hemisphere (Europe, newly independent states of the Former Soviet Union, North America, Asia), but has been reported in Uganda and Chile. Fish infected with Diphyllobothrium larvae may be transported to and consumed in any area of the world.
what is diptheria?
Diphtheria is a serious infection caused by strains of bacteria called Corynebacterium diphtheriae that make toxin (poison). It can lead to difficulty breathing, heart failure, paralysis, and even death. CDC recommends vaccines for infants, children, teens, and adults to prevent diphtheria.
cause of diptheria?
Diphtheria is a serious infection caused by strains of bacteria called Corynebacterium diphtheriae that make a toxin (poison). It is the toxin that can cause people to get very sick.
symptoms of diptheria?
Weakness,Sore throat, Mild fever or Swollen glands in the neck
treatment of diptheria?
Using antibiotics to kill and get rid of the bacteria. This is important for both diphtheria infections in the respiratory system and on the skin.
What is Dientamoeba fragilis?
Dientamoeba fragilis is a parasite that lives in the large intestine of people. Infection is common worldwide, including in the United States.
What are the symptoms of infection with Dientamoeba fragilis?
Many infected people do not have any symptoms. The most common symptoms are diarrhea and abdominal pain. Symptoms also can include loss of appetite, weight loss, nausea, and fatigue. The infection does not spread from the intestine to other parts of the body.
How is infection with Dientamoeba fragilis diagnosed?
Your health care provider will ask you to provide stool specimens for testing. Because the parasite is not always found in every specimen, you might be asked to submit stool from more than one day. You might also be tested for pinworm eggs, which sometimes are found in people who are infected with D. fragilis.
How do people get infected with Dientamoeba fragilis?
This question is difficult to answer because we aren’t sure how D. fragilis is spread. Most likely, people get infected by accidentally swallowing the parasite; this is called fecal-oral transmission. The parasite is fragile; it probably cannot live very long in the environment (after it is passed in feces) or in stomach acid (after it is swallowed). An unproven possibility is that pinworm eggs (or the eggs of another parasite) help protect and spread D. fragilis.
Who is at greatest risk for infection?
Anyone can become infected with this parasite. However, the risk for infection might be higher for people who live in or travel to settings with poor sanitary conditions.
what is diabetes?
Diabetes is a chronic (long-lasting) health condition that affects how your body turns food into energy.Most of the food you eat is broken down into sugar (also called glucose) and released into your bloodstream. When your blood sugar goes up, it signals your pancreas to release insulin. Insulin acts like a key to let the blood sugar into your body’s cells for use as energy.
symptoms of diabetes?
Urinate (pee) a lot, often at night , Are very thirsty , Lose weight without trying , Are very hungry , Have blurry vision , Have numb or tingling hands or feet , Feel very tired , Have very dry skin , Have sores that heal slowly or Have more infections than usual
what is prediabetes?
Prediabetes is a serious health condition where blood sugar levels are higher than normal, but not high enough yet to be diagnosed as type 2 diabetes. Approximately 88 million American adults-more than 1 in 3-have prediabetes. Of those with prediabetes, more than 84% don’t know they have it. Prediabetes puts you at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and stroke.
What Causes Prediabetes?
Insulin is a hormone made by your pancreas that acts like a key to let blood sugar into cells for use as energy. If you have prediabetes, the cells in your body don’t respond normally to insulin. Your pancreas makes more insulin to try to get cells to respond. Eventually your pancreas can’t keep up, and your blood sugar rises, setting the stage for prediabetes-and type 2 diabetes down the road.
what is ringworm?
Ringworm is a common infection of the skin and nails that is caused by fungus. The infection is called "ringworm" because it can cause an itchy, red, circular rash. Ringworm is also called "tinea" or "dermatophytosis." The different types of ringworm are usually named for the location of the infection on the body.
symptoms of ringworm?
Itchy skin , Ring-shaped rash , Red-scaly - cracked skin or Hair loss
Who gets ringworm?
Ringworm is very common. Anyone can get ringworm, but people who have weakened immune systems may be especially at risk for infection and may have problems fighting off a ringworm infection.1 People who use public showers or locker rooms, athletes (particularly those who are involved in contact sports such as wrestling),2–4 people who wear tight shoes and have excessive sweating, and people who have close contact with animals may also be more likely to come in contact with the fungi that cause ringworm.
How is ringworm diagnosed?
Your healthcare provider can usually diagnose ringworm by looking at the affected skin and asking questions about your symptoms. He or she may also take a small skin scraping to be examined under a microscope or sent to a laboratory for a fungal culture.
Treatment of Ringworm?
The treatment for ringworm depends on its location on the body and how serious the infection is. Some forms of ringworm can be treated with non-prescription ("over-the-counter") medications, but other forms of ringworm need treatment with prescription antifungal medication.
What is dengue?
Dengue viruses are spread to people through the bite of an infected Aedes species (Ae. aegypti or Ae. albopictus) mosquito. Dengue is common in more than 100 countries around the world. Forty percent of the world’s population, about 3 billion people, live in areas with a risk of dengue. Dengue is often a leading cause of illness in areas with risk.
prevention of dengue?
Prevent dengue by avoiding mosquito bites.A dengue vaccine is available for use in some parts of the world, including United States territories.
symptoms of dengue?
Nausea, vomiting , Rash , Aches and pains (eye pain, typically behind the eyes, muscle, joint, or bone pain)
treatment of dengue?
Treatment
There is no specific medication to treat dengue. Treat the symptoms of dengue and see your healthcare provider.
What are Dirofilaria?
Dirofilaria are long, thin parasitic roundworms that infect a variety of mammals. Infection is transmitted by mosquito bites. There are many species of Dirofilaria, but human infection is caused most commonly by three species, D. immitis, D. repens, and D. tenuis. The main natural hosts for these three species are dogs and wild canids, such as foxes and wolves (D. immitis and D. repens) and raccoons (D. tenuis). D. immitis is also known as "heartworm." D. repens is not found in the United States, and D. tenuis appears to be restricted to raccoons in North America.
What is dirofilariasis?
Dirofilariasis is the disease caused by Dirofilaria worm infections. In dogs, one form is called "heartworm disease" and is caused by D. immitis. D. immitis adult worms can cause pulmonary artery blockage in dogs, leading to an illness that can include cough, exhaustion upon exercise, fainting, coughing up blood, and severe weight loss.
How is dirofilaiasis diagnosed?
In humans, dirofilariasis is diagnosed most frequently by the examination of tissue from areas of inflammation in the lung obtained as part of the diagnostic investigation of coin lesions (small, round abnormalities) on chest x-rays or from the examination of tissue in nodules under the skin. Blood tests are not yet helpful in the diagnosis of dirofilariasis in humans.
What is the treatment of dirofilariasis?
The definitive treatment of Dirofilaria infection in humans is surgical removal of lung granulomas and nodules under the skin; this treatment is also curative. In many cases, no treatment with medicines is necessary.
How can I prevent dirofilariasis?
Dirofilariasis can be prevented by avoiding mosquito bites in areas where mosquitoes may be infected with Dirofilaria larvae. The risk of such mosquito bites can be reduced by leaving as little skin exposed as possible, by the use of insect repellent when exposed to mosquitoes, and by sleeping under an insecticide-treated bednet in areas where Dirofilaria-infected mosquitoes bite at night and have access to sleeping areas.
What is Hymenolepis nana infection?
The dwarf tapeworm or Hymenolepis nana is found worldwide. Infection is most common in children, in persons living in institutional settings, and in people who live in areas where sanitation and personal hygiene is inadequate.
How did I get infected from hymenolepis?
One becomes infected by accidentally ingesting dwarf tapeworm eggs. This can happen by ingesting fecally contaminated foods or water, by touching your mouth with contaminated fingers, or by ingesting contaminated soil. People can also become infected if they accidentally ingest an infected arthropod (intermediate host, such as a small beetle or mealworm) that has gotten into food.
What are the symptoms of a dwarf tapeworm infection?
Most people who are infected do not have any symptoms. Those who have symptoms may experience nausea, weakness, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Young children, especially those with a heavy infection, may develop a headache, itchy bottom, or have difficulty sleeping. Sometimes infection is misdiagnosed as a pinworm infection.
How is dwarf tapeworm infection diagnosed?
Diagnosis is made by identifying dwarf tapeworm eggs in stool. Your health care provider will ask you to submit stool specimens collected over several days to see if you are infected.
How is a dwarf tapeworm infection treated?
Treatment is available. A prescription drug called praziquantel is given. The medication causes the dwarf tapeworm to dissolve within the intestine. Praziquantel is generally well tolerated. Sometimes more than one treatment is necessary.
what is hyperthermia?
High temperatures kill hundreds of people every year. Heat-related deaths and illness are preventable, yet more than 600 people die from extreme heat every year.
what is hypothermia?
During extremely cold weather, staying warm and safe can be a challenge. Learn how to prepare for winter storms, prevent cold temperature-related health problems, and protect yourself during all stages of a winter storm
what is ebola?
Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) is a rare and deadly disease in people and nonhuman primates. The viruses that cause EVD are located mainly in sub-Saharan Africa. People can get EVD through direct contact with an infected animal (bat or nonhuman primate) or a sick or dead person infected with Ebola virus.
transmission of ebola virus?
Scientists think people are initially infected with Ebola virus through contact with an infected animal, such as a fruit bat or nonhuman primate. This is called a spillover event. After that, the virus spreads from person to person, potentially affecting a large number of people.
symptoms of ebola?
Fever
Aches and pains, such as severe headache, muscle and joint pain, and abdominal (stomach) pain , Weakness and fatigue , Gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea and vomiting , Abdominal (stomach) pain and Unexplained hemorrhaging, bleeding or bruising
diagnosing ebola?
Diagnosing Ebola virus disease (EVD) shortly after infection can be difficult. Early symptoms of EVD such as fever, headache, and weakness are not specific to Ebola virus infection and often are seen in patients with other more common diseases, like malaria and typhoid fever.
treatment of ebola?
Providing fluids and electrolytes (body salts) through infusion into the vein (intravenously).Offering oxygen therapy to maintain oxygen status. Using medication to support blood pressure, reduce vomiting and diarrhea and to manage fever and pain. Treating other infections, if they occur.
what is EVB?
Epstein-Barr virus, or EBV, is one of the most common human viruses in the world. It spreads primarily through saliva. EBV can cause infectious mononucleosis, also called mono, and other illnesses. Most people will get infected with EBV in their lifetime and will not have any symptoms. Mono caused by EBV is most common among teens and adults.
symtoms of EVB?
fatigue, fever , inflamed throat , swollen lymph nodes in the neck , enlarged spleen , swollen liver and rash
diagnosing EVB?
Diagnosing EBV infection can be challenging because the symptoms are similar to other illnesses. EBV infection can be confirmed with a blood test that detects antibodies. About nine out of ten of adults have antibodies that show that they have a current or past EBV infection.
Preventing EVB?
There is no vaccine to protect against EBV infection. You can help protect yourself by not kissing or sharing drinks, food, or personal items, like toothbrushes, with people who have EBV infection.
What is epilepsy? What is a seizure?
Epilepsy, which is sometimes called a seizure disorder, is a disorder of the brain. A person is diagnosed with epilepsy when they have had two or more seizures.
How long do seizures usually last?
Usually, a seizure lasts from a few seconds to a few minutes. It depends on the type of seizure.
What causes epilepsy?
Stroke., Brain tumor. , Brain infection from parasites (malaria, neurocysticercosis), viruses (influenza, dengue, Zika), and bacteria. , Traumatic brain injury or head injury. , Loss of oxygen to the brain (for example, during birth). Some genetic disorders (such as Down syndrome). or Other neurologic diseases (such as Alzheimer’s disease).
How is epilepsy diagnosed?
A person who has a seizure for the first time should talk to a health care provider, such as a doctor or nurse practitioner. The provider will talk to the person about what happened, and look for the cause of the seizure. Many people who have seizures take tests such as brain scans for a closer look at what is going on. These tests do not hurt.
What is enterovirus D68?
First identified in California in 1962, enterovirus D68 (EV-D68) is one of more than 100 non-polio enteroviruses.
How common is EV-D68?
Small numbers of EV-D68 have been reported regularly to CDC since 1987. However, during 2014 the number of people reported with confirmed EV-D68 infection was much greater than that reported in previous years. We can’t predict whether EV-D68 will be a common type of enterovirus detected this year or in future seasons. That’s because a mix of enteroviruses circulates every year, and different types of enteroviruses can be common in different years.
What time of the year are people most likely to get infected?
In the United States, you are more likely to get infected with enteroviruses in the summer and fall. However, you can get infected year round.
What are the symptoms of EV-D68 infection?
EV-D68 can cause mild to severe respiratory illness, or no symptoms at all.Mild symptoms may include runny nose, sneezing, cough, body aches, and muscle aches.Severe symptoms may include wheezing and difficulty breathing.Anyone with respiratory illness should contact their doctor if they are having difficulty breathing or if their symptoms are getting worse.
How does the D68 virus spread?
Since EV-D68 causes respiratory illness, the virus can be found in an infected person’s respiratory secretions, such as saliva, nasal mucus, or sputum (mucus-like secretions from the lungs). EV-D68 likely spreads from person to person when an infected person coughs, sneezes, or touches a surface that is then touched by others.
Who is at risk of D68?
In general, infants, children, and teenagers are most likely to get infected with enteroviruses and become ill. That’s because they do not yet have immunity (protection) from previous exposures to these viruses. We believe this is also true for EV-D68. Adults can get infected with enteroviruses, but they are more likely to have no symptoms or mild symptomsChildren with asthma may have a higher risk for severe respiratory illness caused by EV-D68 infection.
how is D68 diagnosed?
EV-D68 can only be diagnosed by doing specific lab tests on specimens from a person’s nose and throat, or blood. Many hospitals and some doctor’s offices can test ill patients to see if they have enterovirus infection. However, most cannot do specific testing to determine the type of enterovirus, like EV-D68. CDC and some state health departments can do this sort of testing using a real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) lab test, which allows testing and reporting of results within a few days of receiving specimens. Health departments may contact CDC for further enterovirus typing.
What are the treatments?
There is no specific treatment for people with respiratory illness caused by EV-D68. Talk to a doctor about your symptoms and the best way to control them.
What is a pinworm?
A pinworm ("threadworm") is a small, thin, white roundworm (nematode) called Enterobius vermicularis that sometimes lives in the colon and rectum of humans. Pinworms are about the length of a staple. While an infected person sleeps, female pinworms leave the intestine through the anus and deposit their eggs on the surrounding skin.
What are the symptoms of a pinworm infection?
Pinworm infection (called enterobiasis or oxyuriasis) causes itching around the anus which can lead to difficulty sleeping and restlessness. Symptoms are caused by the female pinworm laying her eggs. Symptoms of pinworm infection usually are mild and some infected people have no symptoms.
Who is at risk for pinworm infection?
Pinworm infection occurs worldwide and affects persons of all ages and socioeconomic levels. It is the most common worm infection in the United States. Pinworm infection occurs most commonly among - school-aged and preschool-aged children,institutionalized persons, and household members and caretakers of persons with pinworm infection.Pinworm infection often occurs in more than one person in household and institutional settings. Child care centers often are the site of cases of pinworm infection.
How is pinworm infection spread?
Pinworm infection is spread by the fecal-oral route, that is by the transfer of infective pinworm eggs from the anus to someone’s mouth, either directly by hand or indirectly through contaminated clothing, bedding, food, or other articles.
Can my family become infected with pinworms from swimming pools?
Pinworm infections are rarely spread through the use of swimming pools. Pinworm infections occur when a person swallows pinworm eggs picked up from contaminated surfaces or fingers. Although chlorine levels found in pools are not high enough to kill pinworm eggs, the presence of a small number of pinworm eggs in thousands of gallons of water (the amount typically found in pools) makes the chance of infection unlikely.
Did my pets give me pinworms / can I give pinworms to my pets?
No. Humans are considered to be the only hosts of E. vermicularis which is also known as the human pinworm.
How is pinworm infection diagnosed?
Itching during the night in a child’s perianal area strongly suggests pinworm infection. Diagnosis is made by identifying the worm or its eggs. Worms can sometimes be seen on the skin near the anus or on underclothing, pajamas, or sheets about 2 to 3 hours after falling asleep.
How is pinworm infection treated?
Pinworm can be treated with either prescription or over-the-counter medications. A health care provider should be consulted before treating a suspected case of pinworm infection.Treatment involves two doses of medication with the second dose being given 2 weeks after the first dose. All household contacts and caretakers of the infected person should be treated at the same time. Reinfection can occur easily so strict observance of good hand hygiene is essential (e.g. proper handwashing, maintaining clean short fingernails, avoiding nail biting, avoiding scratching the perianal area).
Should family and other close contacts of someone with pinworm also be treated for pinworm?
Yes. The infected person and all household contacts and caretakers of the infected person should be treated at the same time.
What should be done if the pinworm infection occurs again?
Reinfection occurs easily. Prevention always should be discussed at the time of treatment. Good hand hygiene is the most effective means of prevention. If pinworm infection occurs again, the infected person should be retreated with the same two-dose treatment. The infected person’s household contacts and caretakers also should be treated. If pinworm infection continues to occur, the source of the infection should be sought and treated. Playmates, schoolmates, close contacts outside the home, and household members should be considered possible sources of infection. Each infected person should receive the recommended two-dose treatment.
what is Amebiasis?
Amebiasis is a disease caused by a one-celled parasite called Entamoeba histolytica.
cause of amebiasis?
Puts anything into their mouth that has touched the feces (poop) of a person who is infected with E. histolytica. Swallows something, such as water or food, that is contaminated with E. histolytica. Swallows E. histolytica cysts (eggs) picked up from contaminated surfaces or fingers.
symtoms of emebiasis?
Only about 10% to 20% of people who are infected with E. histolytica become sick from the infection. The symptoms are often quite mild and can include loose feces (poop), stomach pain, and stomach cramping. Amebic dysentery is a severe form of amebiasis associated with stomach pain, bloody stools (poop), and fever. Rarely, E. histolytica invades the liver and forms an abscess (a collection of pus). In a small number of instances, it has been shown to spread to other parts of the body, such as the lungs or brain, but this is very uncommon.
diagnosis of amebiasis?
Diagnosis of amebiasis can be very difficult. One problem is that other parasites and cells can look very similar to E. histolytica when seen under a microscope. Therefore, sometimes people are told that they are infected with E. histolytica even though they are not. Entamoeba histolytica and another ameba, Entamoeba dispar, which is about 10 times more common, look the same when seen under a microscope. Unlike infection with E. histolytica, which sometimes makes people sick, infection with E. dispar does not make people sick and therefore does not need to be treated.
what is fungal infection?
A fungus that invades the tissue can cause a disease that's confined to the skin, spreads into tissue, bones and organs or affects the whole body.
What is Hemophilia?
Hemophilia is usually an inherited bleeding disorder in which the blood does not clot properly. This can lead to spontaneous bleeding as well as bleeding following injuries or surgery. Blood contains many proteins called clotting factors that can help to stop bleeding. People with hemophilia have low levels of either factor VIII (8) or factor IX (9). The severity of hemophilia that a person has is determined by the amount of factor in the blood. The lower the amount of the factor, the more likely it is that bleeding will occur which can lead to serious health problems.
causes of hemophilia?
Hemophilia is caused by a mutation or change, in one of the genes, that provides instructions for making the clotting factor proteins needed to form a blood clot. This change or mutation can prevent the clotting protein from working properly or to be missing altogether. These genes are located on the X chromosome. Males have one X and one Y chromosome (XY) and females have two X chromosomes (XX). Males inherit the X chromosome from their mothers and the Y chromosome from their fathers. Females inherit one X chromosome from each parent.
sign and symptoms of hemophilia?
Bleeding into the joints. This can cause swelling and pain or tightness in the joints; it often affects the knees, elbows, and ankles.
Who is Affected from hemophilia?
Hemophilia occurs in about 1 of every 5,000 male births. Based on recent study that used data collected on patients receiving care in federally funded hemophilia treatment centers during the period 2012-2018, about 20,000 as many as 33,000 males in the United States are living with the disorder. Hemophilia A is about four times as common as hemophilia B, and about half of those affected have the severe form. Hemophilia affects people from all racial and ethnic groups.
Diagnosis of hemophilia?
Many people who have or have had family members with hemophilia will ask that their baby boys get tested soon after birth.About one-third of babies who are diagnosed with hemophilia have a new mutation not present in other family members. In these cases, a doctor might check for hemophilia if a newborn is showing certain signs of hemophilia.
Treatment of hemophilia?
The best way to treat hemophilia is to replace the missing blood clotting factor so that the blood can clot properly. This is done by infusing (administering through a vein) commercially prepared factor concentrates. People with hemophilia can learn how to perform these infusions themselves so that they can stop bleeding episodes and, by performing the infusions on a regular basis (called prophylaxis), can even prevent most bleeding episodes.
what is jaundice?
Jaundice is the yellow color seen in the skin of many newborns. Jaundice happens when a chemical called bilirubin builds up in the baby’s blood. During pregnancy, the mother’s liver removes bilirubin for the baby, but after birth the baby’s liver must remove the bilirubin. 
sign and symptoms of jaundice?
Jaundice usually appears first on the face and then moves to the chest, belly, arms, and legs as bilirubin levels get higher. The whites of the eyes can also look yellow. Jaundice can be harder to see in babies with darker skin color. The baby’s doctor or nurse can test how much bilirubin is in the baby’s blood.
diagnosing jaundice?
The best way to accurately measure bilirubin is with a small blood sample from the baby’s heel. This results in a total serum bilirubin (TSB) level. If the level is high, based upon the baby’s age in hours and other risk factors, treatment will likely follow. Repeat blood samples will also likely be taken to ensure that the TSB decreases with the prescribed treatment.
treatment of jaundice?
When being treated for high bilirubin levels, the baby will be undressed and put under special lights. The lights will not hurt the baby. This can be done in the hospital or even at home. The baby’s milk intake may also need to be increased. In some cases, if the baby has very high bilirubin levels, the doctor will do a blood exchange transfusion. Jaundice is generally treated before brain damage is a concern.
What is leishmaniasis?
Leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease that is found in parts of the tropics, subtropics, and southern Europe. Leishmaniasis is caused by infection with Leishmania parasites, which are spread by the bite of infected sand flies. There are several different forms of leishmaniasis in people. The most common forms are cutaneous leishmaniasis, which causes skin sores, and visceral leishmaniasis, which affects several internal organs (usually spleen, liver, and bone marrow).
What are the symptoms and signs of cutaneous leishmaniasis?
Some people have a silent infection, without any symptoms or signs. People who develop clinical evidence of infection have one or more sores on their skin. The sores can change in size and appearance over time. The sores may start out as papules (bumps) or nodules (lumps) and may end up as ulcers (like a volcano, with a raised edge and central crater); skin ulcers may be covered by scab or crust. The sores usually are painless but can be painful. Some people have swollen glands near the sores (for example, under the arm, if the sores are on the arm or hand).
What are the symptoms and signs of visceral leishmaniasis?
Some people have a silent infection, without any symptoms or signs. People who develop clinical evidence of infection usually have fever, weight loss, enlargement (swelling) of the spleen and liver, and abnormal blood tests. People may have low blood counts, including a low red blood cell count (anemia), a low white blood cell count (leukopenia), and a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia).
How common is leishmaniasis in the world?
The number of new cases may vary or change over time and are difficult to estimate. For cutaneous leishmaniasis, estimates of the number of new cases per year have ranged from approximately 700,000 to 1.2 million or more. For visceral leishmaniasis, the estimated number of new cases per year may have decreased to <100,000, but previous estimates ranged up to 400,000 or more cases.
In what parts of the world is leishmaniasis found?
In the Old World (the Eastern Hemisphere), leishmaniasis is found in some parts of Asia, the Middle East, Africa (particularly in the tropical region and North Africa, with some cases elsewhere), and southern Europe. It is not found in Australia or the Pacific Islands.
How do people get infected with Leishmania parasites?
The main way is through the bite of infected female phlebotomine sand flies. Sand flies become infected by sucking blood from an infected animal or person. People might not realize that sand flies are present because:
Who is at risk for Leishmania infection?
People of all ages are at risk for infection if they live or travel where leishmaniasis is found. Leishmaniasis usually is more common in rural than in urban areas, but it is found in the outskirts of some cities. The transmission risk is highest from dusk to dawn because this is when sand flies generally are the most active. Examples of people who may have an increased risk for infection (especially with the cutaneous form) include adventure travelers, ecotourists, Peace Corps volunteers, missionaries, soldiers, ornithologists (people who study birds), and other people who do research (or are active) outdoors at night/twilight.
How is leishmaniasis diagnosed?
The first steps are to check if you have been in a part of the world where leishmaniasis is found and if you have any symptoms or signs that might be from leishmaniasis.
Does leishmaniasis have to be treated?
Your health care provider can talk with CDC staff about whether your case of leishmaniasis should be treated and, if so, with what type of therapy.The skin sores of cutaneous leishmaniasis usually heal on their own, even without treatment. But this can take months or even years, and the sores can leave ugly scars. Another potential concern applies to some (not all) types of the parasite found in parts of Latin America: certain types might spread from the skin and cause sores in the mucous membranes of the nose, mouth, or throat (mucosal leishmaniasis). Mucosal leishmaniasis might not be noticed until years after the original sores healed. Ensuring adequate treatment of the cutaneous infection may help prevent mucosal leishmaniasis.
I plan to travel to an area of the world where leishmaniasis is found. What can I do to prevent infection?
No vaccines or drugs to prevent infection are available. The best way for travelers to prevent infection is to protect themselves from sand fly bites. To decrease the risk of being bitten, follow these preventive measures:Avoid outdoor activities, especially from dusk to dawn, when sand flies generally are the most active.
What is malaria?
Malaria is a serious and sometimes fatal disease caused by a parasite that commonly infects a certain type of mosquito which feeds on humans. People who get malaria are typically very sick with high fevers, shaking chills, and flu-like illness. 
How is malaria transmitted?
Usually, people get malaria by being bitten by an infective female Anopheles mosquito. Only Anopheles mosquitoes can transmit malaria and they must have been infected through a previous blood meal taken from an infected person. When a mosquito bites an infected person, a small amount of blood is taken in which contains microscopic malaria parasites. About 1 week later, when the mosquito takes its next blood meal, these parasites mix with the mosquito’s saliva and are injected into the person being bitten.
Who is at risk for malaria?
Anyone can get malaria. Most cases occur in people who live in countries with malaria transmission. People from countries with no malaria can become infected when they travel to countries with malaria or through a blood transfusion (although this is very rare). Also, an infected mother can transmit malaria to her infant before or during delivery.
What are the signs and symptoms of malaria?
Symptoms of malaria include fever and flu-like illness, including shaking chills, headache, muscle aches, and tiredness. Nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea may also occur. Malaria may cause anemia and jaundice (yellow coloring of the skin and eyes) because of the loss of red blood cells. If not promptly treated, the infection can become severe and may cause kidney failure, seizures, mental confusion, coma, and death.
When should malaria be treated?
The disease should be treated early in its course, before it becomes serious and life-threatening. Several good antimalarial drugs are available, and should be taken early on. The most important step is to go see a doctor if you are sick and are presently in, or have recently been in, an area with malaria, so that the disease is diagnosed and treated right away.
What is the treatment for malaria?
Malaria can be cured with prescription drugs. The type of drugs and length of treatment depend on the type of malaria, where the person was infected, their age, whether they are pregnant, and how sick they are at the start of treatment.
what is measles?
A viral infection that's serious for small children but is easily preventable by a vaccine.The disease spreads through the air by respiratory droplets produced from coughing or sneezing.Measles symptoms don't appear until 10 to 14 days after exposure. They include cough, runny nose, inflamed eyes, sore throat, fever and a red, blotchy skin rash.
symptoms of measles?
Measles symptoms don't appear until 10 to 14 days after exposure. They include cough, runny nose, inflamed eyes, sore throat, fever and a red, blotchy skin rash.
Treatment of measles?
There's no treatment to get rid of an established measles infection, but over-the-counter fever reducers or vitamin A may help with symptoms.
what is monkeypox?
Monkeypox is a rare disease that is caused by infection with monkeypox virus. Monkeypox virus belongs to the Orthopoxvirus genus in the family Poxviridae. The Orthopoxvirus genus also includes variola virus (the cause of smallpox), vaccinia virus (used in the smallpox vaccine), and cowpox virus.
Trasmission of monkeypox?
Transmission of monkeypox virus occurs when a person comes into contact with the virus from an animal, human, or materials contaminated with the virus. The virus enters the body through broken skin (even if not visible), respiratory tract, or the mucous membranes (eyes, nose, or mouth). Animal-to-human transmission may occur by bite or scratch, bush meat preparation, direct contact with body fluids or lesion material, or indirect contact with lesion material, such as through contaminated bedding.
Treatment of Monkeypox?
Currently, no treatment for monkeypox has been shown to be effective or safe.[7] A number of measures may be used to try to decrease spread of the disease including the smallpox vaccine, cidofovir, and vaccinia immune globulin
What is pneumonia?
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs that can cause mild to severe illness in people of all ages. Vaccines can prevent some types of pneumonia. You can also help prevent pneumonia and other respiratory infections by following good hygiene practices.
causes of pneumonia?
Viruses, bacteria, and fungi can all cause pneumonia. In the United States, common causes of viral pneumonia are influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). A common cause of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus). However, clinicians are not always able to find out which germ caused someone to get sick with pneumonia.
What is Rabies?
Rabies is a fatal but preventable viral disease. It can spread to people and pets if they are bitten or scratched by a rabid animal. In the United States, rabies is mostly found in wild animals like bats, raccoons, skunks, and foxes. However, in many other countries dogs still carry rabies, and most rabies deaths in people around the world are caused by dog bites.
how is rabies transmitted?
Rabies virus is transmitted through direct contact (such as through broken skin or mucous membranes in the eyes, nose, or mouth) with saliva or brain/nervous system tissue from an infected animal.
symtoms of rabies?
The first symptoms of rabies may be very similar to those of the flu including general weakness or discomfort, fever, or headache. These symptoms may last for days.
What is symptoms of smallpox?
Before smallpox was eradicated, it was a serious infectious disease caused by the variola virus. It was contagious-meaning, it spread from one person to another. People who had smallpox had a fever and a distinctive, progressive skin rash.
How does Smallpox Spread?
Before smallpox was eradicated, it was mainly spread by direct and fairly prolonged face-to-face contact between people. Smallpox patients became contagious once the first sores appeared in their mouth and throat (early rash stage). They spread the virus when they coughed or sneezed and droplets from their nose or mouth spread to other people. They remained contagious until their last smallpox scab fell off.
sign and symptoms of smallpox?
A person with smallpox goes through several stages as the disease progresses. Each stage has its own signs and symptoms.
Treatment of smallpox?
There is a vaccine to protect people from smallpox. If there were a smallpox outbreak, health officials would use the smallpox vaccine to control it. While some antiviral drugs may help treat it or prevent the smallpox disease from getting worse, there is no treatment for it that has been proven effective in people sick with the disease.
what is swine flu?
Swine influenza is a respiratory disease of pigs caused by type A influenza viruses that regularly cause outbreaks of influenza in pigs. Influenza viruses that commonly circulate in swine are called "swine influenza viruses" or "swine flu viruses." Like human influenza viruses, there are different subtypes and strains of swine influenza viruses.
Treatment of swine flu?
Influenza antiviral drugs can be used to treat influenza infections, including human infections with influenza viruses that normally circulate in swine (swine influenza). There are four different antiviral drugs that are recommended for use in the United States for the treatment of influenza: oseltamivir, peramivir, zanamivir, and baloxavir.
What is tb?
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. Not everyone infected with TB bacteria becomes sick. As a result, two TB-related conditions exist: latent TB infection (LTBI) and TB disease. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal.
symptoms of tb?
a bad cough that lasts 3 weeks or longer , pain in the chest or coughing up blood or sputum (phlegm from deep inside the lungs).